- one Kevin Ross bringer of gifts good
to see you brother thank you very much
for that bag oh you're very welcome it's
very cool people let you know a Kevin
brought our giant heavy bag filled with
sand that has Dawei North of 200 pounds
oh yeah right I think it's about 250
yeah a lot of fun getting that in my car
by myself is that your preferred method
for conditioning your shins for sure for
sure you know the thing with Qing
conditioning a lot of people do you know
they smack themselves in the shin with
bottles and kind of stupid things like
that yeah you're not really creating
what you need to which is a overall
conditioning overall strengthening of
the nerve the bone all you're really
doing is deadening little spots in your
nerves but that's the worst thing you
can do without strengthening your bones
you're deadening the nerves but not
strengthening the bone overall and if
you're not doing that you're gonna think
your bones a lot stronger than it is but
it can't handle the impact so with with
a sandbag you're you're you're covering
much more surface area and you know
applying it in a realistic situation
where you're able to throw kicks
repeatedly at this thing and what you
would you really want to do is do it to
a degree that it's causing a certain
amount of pain but you're able to do
this daily with with repetition because
that's how you continue to develop just
like getting stronger at anything you
know it doesn't happen overnight you got
to just do this every day just at the
end of your session knock out a few
kicks and then again tomorrow night and
again the next day and you slowly and
steadily are they able to go harder and
harder and develop this strength and
conditioning in your shins so the idea
is that you're making like these little
tiny micro fractures right yeah for sure
and yeah like I said you want to be able
to cover a good surface area so you're
hitting it all it kind of at once as
opposed to like little spots which is
what happens when you just whack it with
a batter or something like that my
experience was whacking it with a bad as
everybody kind of quits you're like hey
I'm gonna condition my shins and then
just go what the fuck am i doing and
they stopped doing it well the thing to
with with when you're able to kick like
that is you can kind of slowly build up
you know you start a little bit lightly
and develop a little bit stronger and
you kind of create a little bit of a
crease and you know as you get going you
your brain can kind of wrap itself
around it a little bit better and then
you still going harder and harder and by
the end of you know your five ten-minute
session you're putting some serious
weight into that and you're not you're
not noticing it as much yeah we were
talking about your your need that you
had a fracture and you need that you
didn't realize you had yeah that's this
it's we're like the thing that disturbs
me maybe the most in kickboxing and so
I've only seen it a few times is when
someone checks a kick and their leg
snaps in half you know like Tyrone Spong
when you fought gokon sake or Anderson
Silva when he fought Chris Weidman
anything that snap of when the the shin
gives out like that can you prevent that
from doing this obviously it's one of
those just freak things that happens you
know clearly with those guys you can
have the most conditioned Chin's in the
world but you catch them the wrong way
wrong time they can happen in it's rare
but it does happen and it doesn't really
matter how long you've been doing this
how strong your shins are sometimes
things just break I always wonder how
many guys have little breaks and they
don't know about it - probably a lot
yeah a lot yeah they said that's what
happened with Anderson but Anderson
threw a kick and he broke it before that
like he felt something was wrong and
then went through that second kick and
it snapped in half that's what that's
why I did that yeah yeah that makes
sense
well Weidman was checking it perfect he
was checking it right at the top of his
knee yeah and you know that's a big
thing with you know fighting a lot of a
lot of people tend to just blindly just
pick their shin up you know as opposed
to paying attention to where it is on
your shin that it's hitting just just
like when you're kicking you need to pay
attention to what piece of your leg
you're hitting with which piece of your
shin you're checking with and the higher
up on your shin it is that the harder
it's going to be and when you're
southpaw versus orthodoxson throwing
that inside leg kick you're you're
you're coming upwards at an angle which
is tends to be like low on your foot or
your your your ankle and then you're
checking with high up by your knee so
you have the smallest part of your shin
connecting with the the hardest part of
somebody else's and with that that's
just the one that tends to do that yeah
it's a shin on shin contact is such a
brutal thing like I think everybody
should experience it once yeah you know
just crack oh yeah and you know the
funny thing is it doesn't matter how
long you've you've done this for you we
watch these fights and assume that they
don't feel pain and that it doesn't
bother them but even guys with hundreds
and hundreds of fights you see in the
next day and their gimping around pretty
good yeah you know we have this idea in
our brains that eventually you're gonna
get to a point when you just don't feel
pain and it doesn't bother you but
eventually realize that never happens
you know it is better to get that out of
your head now you know Muay Thai and
kickboxing and anything that the bone on
bone is it's going to be painful and
that's part of the art of it you learn
how to place your kicks better and pay
attention to what you're doing and yeah
of course you you develop your shin
conditioning and that kind of thing but
it always hurts it's always gonna hurt
it's such a brutally effective way to
fight and it's so interesting that
Thailand perfected that yeah I've always
been fascinated by that like you know
you think about the entire world it's an
enormous world and people have been
fighting in this enormous world from the
beginning of time and this one island
they said hey I got an idea well it's a
cultural thing over there you know it's
part of their upbringing it's like
baseball over here or soccer in other
parts of the world where everybody kind
of does it to one extent or the other
and you know clearly if you're doing
this from time you're a child
particularly when it's a job like it is
for them over there and it's a it's more
than just for fun it's not for fun it's
it's like this how I survive this or
working in the fields you know and that
completely changes their mentality about
it and that's why when you go there it's
like obviously the skill for sure but
but the mentality and their reasons for
doing this like
it's so different it's so different yeah
and they start so young and there's
they're they're basically sent to these
camps and they start fighting like you
know before they're like 10 years old
yeah oftentimes yeah a lot of these kids
you know they're their families send
them to these these camps and that's
where they're raised you know they're
raised in a gym to be fighters and to
work for the gyms I mean that that's
really what they're doing is they're
working you know they're they're they're
getting money to send back to their
families and they're not doing this for
fun they're not doing yeah hobby I've
always been fascinated by the way the
tie spar as well because I think it's
really interesting that given that they
do fight so often and their livelihood
depends on it and that it is not a game
they've really figured out a bunch of
things and one of the things that
figured out is hit the pads hard hit the
bag hard spar light yeah yeah there's
there's give-and-take to everything that
we do and we're trying to maximize our
learning and minimize the damage or the
the risk of injury that we're taking and
we have the opposite approach here in
America oh just beat the shit out of
each other and you know that's good
that's how you're gonna get better but
you don't really develop when you're
going hard like that you're learning how
to be tough and you're gonna how to take
damage and you're you know learning how
to be in the fire like that which is
important but you're not really
developing you know when you when you're
playing when you're practicing when
you're not thinking about getting
injured or knocked out you're able to
learn new and apply new things and new
techniques and and and practice things
that you normally wouldn't it's like
when you're worried about getting hurt
you're only gonna focus on the things
that you're really good at you know
you're not going to try these different
approaches and that's what really limits
a lot of our development you know a lot
of you see a lot of fighters their their
ability kind of levels off at to a
certain degree and they don't they don't
continually develop as their careers go
on and they also don't last very long
either because of the amount of damage
their their bodies and their brains are
taking you know each one of us only has
a fine
number of shots to the head we can take
and end shots of the body we can take
and do you want to use those in the gym
or do you want to use those in the ring
you know I think it's really about
finding a good balance between that you
know in the beginning all I did was just
go crazy and spar super hard six days a
week leading all the way up to the fight
and six days a week you were sparring
hard really yeah yeah and with guy I
mean the smallest guy I had to work with
coming up was probably 20 pounds bigger
than me and you know in a lot of ways
this helped me develop and gain a lot of
strength and confidence and and ability
to take that kind of punishment but it
also did a lot of detrimental things a
lot of stupid injuries a lot of damage
and you know over the years I've come to
develop and get more on to the tie
approach of things and and practice and
playing and you know finding when the
time to go hard is and when the time to
to learn and develop is and what's
counterproductive and what isn't how do
you make that distinction like how do
you know when's the time to go hard you
don't you don't really I mean everything
that we do is a process of trial and
error you know and I think once you kind
of understand that you can think clearly
and and apply the things you need to in
the midst of that fire fight watch it
which you know is really what shuts a
lot of people down in the beginning they
can't process the information that's
happening because it's so intense and
and that is why it's important to kind
of have that in and have that fight like
such a waste scenario in in the gym but
once you've done that and you've had the
experience and all of that I think it's
it's so much so much more beneficial to
start going towards the other direction
especially if you want to stay in this
sport for a good amount of time and not
take unnecessary damage for really no
purpose whatsoever it should to me it
should be the exception and not the rule
you know like have those hard training
sessions ins once in a while especially
if you can get working with people that
you're not used to because because you
know obviously when you fight it's you
don't know what they're really doing in
there and it's like working with a
stranger and in the gym we we know each
other so well that we tend to
just work on those things in our
practice but but that's how we develop
and if we're not doing that we're really
limiting ourselves it's got to be
difficult to find the right balance in
terms of like what gym you're training
at like what were you training at these
days I'm down in San Diego now I moved
down there two years ago at the the
boxing club oh there's that Artem yeah
yeah sure ocean look Bevin's place yeah
yeah and Levin was is there too
Artem sure ocean yet small Artem he he
we met almost 15 years ago he was
actually the janitor at this gym had
just moved from Russia and now he owns
three of them and is this amazing gym
owner and business person which is it
was just an unbelievably fascinating
story that he has in an inspirational
thing and but yeah that's where I'm at
and now and I kind of bounce back
between San Diego and out here Gina
lives out here so I kind of go back and
forth now that place is it's called the
boxing club right yeah but it's my time
yeah yeah there's that another gym out
here called boxing works which is which
is the one I turn out in Torrance and
same thing it's a Muay Thai gym and both
these gyms are Muay Thai and kickboxing
related yet they're boxing why do they
call boxing works is just to get people
to join I don't really know you know I
don't really know why that happened or
how that happened but yeah it's kind of
ironic that both those places are
seemingly boxing gyms and they're not at
all what made you make the move down
there a lot of things I I'd always
planned on ending up in San Diego I mean
that's the one pull of it down yeah and
I've lived all over this country since
you know moved all over the place since
I was a little kid and San Diego was
just where I always planned I'd be one
day I didn't think I'd move down there
until I was done fighting but through
the process of a lot of things and you
know transitions in my life it just kind
of was the right time to go it's the
perfect balance cuz it's like a city but
it's not a big city yeah and it's got a
lot of beauty like there's beautiful
hills and the ocean is beautiful like
but it's not that crowded it's like it's
alright I shouldn't even even be talked
about it yeah and what I don't want
people to move once you go there it's
it's tough to want to be anywhere else
ya know the energy that's there that the
the way that people are you know you you
have all those things that are in other
cities but all everything that's perfect
and in one place it's it's very unique
in that sense I think there's a lot of
positive aspects to the military
presence there too because I think
there's so many discipline people down
there yeah there's like a lot of health
conscious fitness oriented and
discipline people yeah because of the
fact there's such a giant military
presence down there like there's so many
people that are involved in the military
and so many people that are involved in
the military have a lot of discipline
trained a lot or interested in martial
arts in particular yeah you know it's
just I think it flavors that community
mm-hmm yeah it's it's it's a wonderful
place I love it lovely I don't go there
the problem is the fucking drive whoo
that Drive yeah well every time I work
in San Diego I leave here at like 8:00
in the morning oh yeah yeah just like
let's if I have to work there at night
I'm like let me just fucking get it out
of the way yeah get that 4-hour drive
out of the way early yeah you know if
you like for me if I leave at around
10:00 10:30 I can usually get there in
about two hours before traffic hits but
there's this really short window of time
but if you miss it it's a rough one yeah
my friend bill burr takes helicopter
down there yeah well he's been taking
helicopter lessons we should all get
some helicopters and well he doesn't
have his own but he takes lessons yeah
and so you know it just hires one and
he'll actually fly as a co-pilot who's
like the you know flight instructor
explains everything to make sure he's
doing everything right yeah and then you
down there in an hour yeah oh yeah have
you ever been in a helicopter
I haven't they kind of freak me out of
it you know they just seem so sketchy
they're sketchy yeah yeah but if they're
well-maintained like anything else you
know he took me up in one and we flew
over in eyes and over Matt it was crazy
flying over Malibu because we did it
right after the fires always he got to
see all the houses that were burnt to
the ground nuts man and like Point Dume
so these just huge estates are probably
worth 25 million dollars is burnt
to the fucking ground it's like and so
many of a man Malby lost like six
hundred structures this wild man it's
hard to wrap your brain around the the
damage that was done and then I saw this
scale which showed you know what the
California fires are and what the
Australian fire oh my god that's just my
friend tom is there right now and he
said they had to divert his plane he was
supposed to fly into Melbourne and they
diverted it to Sydney because they
couldn't fly through the smoke and 70%
of the countries covered in smoke and a
good percentage of those fires were
started by people yeah it's fucking
around like throwing cigarettes into the
bush crazy yeah they said half a billion
animals are dead jeez yeah that's
terrible it's insane and they said that
the koala bear like so much of their
habitat is destroyed there there in like
grave danger yeah it's yeah I mean like
it said like something about like 80% of
their range has been destroyed
yeah it's crazy no koala bears only eat
like I think they only eat eucalyptus
trees yeah that's all they eat just kind
of fucked up me just they found what
works yeah they're in the one thing it's
like I do too only these blueberries you
know like bro what if they run out of
blueberries yeah yeah I don't think they
can eat other things I think that's like
their digestive system is evolved to eat
eucalyptus leaves yeah yeah that's
horrible it's fucked up man when you
look at the map of where the fires are
it's it's crazy it's like multiple stiff
like it's like if we had like multiple
states like Texas Wyoming divided all on
fire at the same time that's what it's
like over there
yeah it's hard to wrap your mind around
it is have you ever been when there's a
fire here not not close enough to really
feel like that but but around and even
just them in the general area I mean you
realize how quickly they can spread and
just take over everything and yeah so
devastating
I've been evacuated three times yeah
from where I live and this last one the
house is across the street from a house
burnt to the ground yeah and then two
houses down the one of those houses
burnt down on my block ten houses
yeah it's fucking nuts man I went to
walk the dog today and we're walking by
these just empty Lots where these people
used to live mm-hmm no you know what
bright side nobody died hopefully
everybody had insurance but it's just
it's humbling when you see it coming
because everybody's like they're the
firefighters are doing their best
they're just they're dumping water
they're doing their best to create
firebreaks and everything again but
there's nothing they can do it's so big
I mean it was so big it was just coming
over the top of the mountain he looked
all the way to the left and all the way
to the right just nothing but fire and
these guys are just constantly circling
over and dropping water down and doing
their best but it's like it was crazy
and that was nothing compared to up
north Northern California yeah Northern
California people died on the fucking
highway they couldn't get out of the way
of it that was terrible man that was so
bad you know I was up there probably
about five years ago when these were
going on and they were just popping up
everywhere and and there was some that
were pretty close to the gym and having
to like watch and see where their axes
they were close through the apartments
who lived in them like we might have to
like get out of here because they just
pop all over the place and they hopped
from one place to the other with the
wind and everything Henry cejudo almost
burnt to death you know the story about
him he had to jump out the window
barefoot burnt the fuck out of his feet
yeah like he didn't even know it was
going on he was sleeping and then all
sudden he's waking up he's like what is
happening and he looks out the window
and everything's on fire it got to him
that quickly mm-hmm scary shit man but
it's it's that you know that's fucked up
about it but we all had to go to like me
and my neighbors and some friends of
mine we all picked a hotel we were in
town we all went together but there's
like a weird camaraderie about when shit
like that goes down everybody was happy
it's horrible that those things kind of
happen and they make you realize like
what is important yeah and you know it's
the same thing like when you when you
travel overseas and go to third-world
countries like they seem to have a very
good understanding of what life should
and is about and why I'm here we have
everything everyone has everything and
everyone's complaining you're not
everything and we're miserable and we're
spoiled and that's that mentality it's
it's so unfortunate it's like that the
more you have the more
we have to complain about and forget
what what is important in this life it's
weird that it takes something like that
to jar you it's you should be able to
learn from that and then carry that
lesson yeah but that lesson is like sand
in your fingers marriage how quickly
like after like 9/11 or things like that
no how long does it last
yeah and such a traumatic thing like
that you know we have like a week or two
of America let's let's let's get
together and let's take care and love
each other and then I forgot yeah
well I've I mean to make an analogy with
martial arts one of the reasons why I
enjoy being around martial artists and
why most of my friends are good
percentage of my friends are martial
artists I feel like training all the
time and getting humble particularly in
jujitsu because you can get tapped out a
lot and you you know you just train and
you get tapped out and you keep going so
I'm getting knocked out yeah it's not
like you know you can only get cracked
in the head so many times in sparring
but you you develop this kind of
humility that is it's it's everybody
kind of understands it and there's this
feeling that you get where you
understand when someone's trying to kill
you all the time like on a regular basis
some dudes trying to choke the fucking
breath out of you and so let's get their
arm wrapped around your neck like the
rest of the world seems easier you know
and I almost feel like human beings are
engineered through through evolution
we've sort of been designed through
natural selection to learn how to
survive difficult things and when the
difficult things don't exist we make
things that aren't difficult difficult
yeah very much so very much so you know
for me I feel that training and martial
arts and fighting and all these things
that it clears the static and the noise
out of your life and it allows you to
focus on the things that are important
and not be so distracted by fluff and
nothingness no no and even a day or two
of not training I like I feel that stuff
seeping back in
yeah and it's it's it's substantial you
know and like I don't know how
everyone's not running around shooting
each other because just a few days I'm
not doing this I'm like I'm gonna kill
somebody because because I loud just the
stresses of nothing to get it there need
to make this sound more consistent just
push that a little bit further just
because it's you do man cigarette things
like Hello I don't have a voice alright
how about that that's perfect alright um
how much longer do you think you're
gonna compete I have no idea man how old
you know I'll be 40 this year oh shit
yeah that's the magic number
you know the since the day I started you
know I didn't start till I was 23 yeah
and so what's tell your story because
it's an it's a fascinating story cuz I
love a guy whose life is fucked up and
then he figured something out yeah and
then becomes a role model and in a lot
of ways that's what you've done
yeah it's a long story and I am I'm
actually in the process of writing my
opera up biography right now which I've
been working on pretty consistently for
the last five years something that you
know I really was doing it for myself in
a lot of ways to have an understanding
of the things that I've been through and
the things that I've learned and
processed and acquired over the years
which is you know in a lot of ways it's
been extremely rewarding and doing all
this but it's also been in very
difficult very painful and emotional
going back through all these things that
happened to me in my childhood and my
upbringing and things that I'm even to
this day I'm still trying to process and
understand a lot of and my story yeah
well your story of not starting till
you're 23 and for that too much partying
yeah so summarize a lot of this you know
I was I grew up in a lot of different
places moved around a lot and you know
my parents split up very early me my
mother and three brother four brothers
sisters you know we basically lived in
somebody's basement for
in the beginning and we're living on
welfare and bouncing around from place
to place and so much of that shut me
down emotionally and you know when I was
kid from what I'm told I mean I've
really not much recollection of my
childhood because I blocked so much of
this out and so it's been really
difficult for me to write this book
because I don't really have many
memories I have almost no memories of
that time in my life where I felt like a
child that carefreeness of childhood and
I've had to you know talk to siblings
and friends from back then and look
through photo albums and slowly things
start coming together and you know that
that's why a lot of this has been really
therapeutic but I was a fighting I
always loved boxing and was very
intrigued by it and martial arts you
know Bruce Lee was always a hero of mine
and but I hated violence coming up I
hated it but I was intrigued by it so
one of a really good friend of mine we
lived in Colorado for about a year or
two he would get into fights on a weekly
basis in school and I was fascinated by
it and I'm like wow that like you're so
brave and so strong and I felt like such
like a weak I was very allowed like
weakness to overtake me throughout the
the the events of my life and I was very
shy didn't talk you know I was always
athletic and that kind of thing but but
as far as confrontation in that I'd like
it just shut me down and I didn't like
it it upset me a lot and you know when
people would be angry with me and so I
had this this strange dynamic where I
was drawn to fighting and I was drawn to
violence in one way but if I also hated
it a lot and was scared by it but but
over the years you know I thought about
I was like oh maybe I'll try boxing one
day and that'd be really cool you know I
was fascinated watching two people in
the ring and all these people are
watching and they're there with each
other regardless of their skill level
and you know just thinking about what
would it must be like in there to do
that you know and fascinated me but it
but again like I said I love martial
arts so I wanted to be able to kick
people I want to be able to elbow people
and knee people and I never saw any
fighting that was like that you know as
I was coming up I mean you'd see
Taekwondo and karate and a lot of point
sparring and that kind of thing and
forms and you know even that I thought
was fascinated but I wanted to fight
like boxers did and I just never really
saw anything like that and one day 94
this is right when we moved to Vegas I
was watching ESPN like 2:00 in the
morning
and they used to have Thai fights on
once in a while and this fight came on I
got this next fight is guy moot I fight
between so and so and when that started
I was immediately hooked it hit
something in me that just like lit me on
fire I was like this is everything that
I've been looking for this is something
so different and it just spoke to my
soul and it fascinated me and I was like
if I am ever gonna do this that's gonna
be it's gonna be muy Thai but you know
for various reasons uh it scared me one
I didn't know how to be able to afford
it um I didn't know if my parents
wouldn't even let me and you know coming
up the way I did I was partying and
drinking all the time even at that I
mean I started drinking when I was like
12 years old holy shit yeah and by the
time I was probably 18 I was physically
dependent alcoholic I had to drink
everyday in order to keep my nerves I'm
shaking mymy held my hands would would
tremor how much were you drinking a lot
a lot every day I would drink every day
I would go all day throughout the day a
little bit at night I would just be
pounding 40s fuck constantly you know
and that's all that's all that I did I
that's all me my friends did was you
just drink will you drink every day and
it was hard how did you wean yourself
off that starting whit eyes would but
what did it I as I said I learned about
it in 94 over the years every once in a
while I'd see a fight and
oh I want to do this so bad in 98 I
actually started calling around gyms in
Vegas I was like oh if I'm gonna find a
place to do this and for me it was one
of those things all right if I'm gonna
do it I want to do it right and now I
want to do it to fight and if I'm gonna
do it to fight him what is the the the
fastest way to get there and I was like
I need to take one-on-one lessons I need
to I wanted to learn from a tie you know
and that was not to say you know like
Americans or anybody else can can't
teach it but I was like if you're gonna
learn you might as well learn it from
the source and the only place in Vegas
that taught muy Thai one of the only
places that even taught Malita
indefinitely only place that had Thai
instructors was master toddies Jim and I
called the gym you know went down and
talked to one of the instructors and
when he let me know how expensive it was
gonna be I was like there's just no way
there's no way imma be able to do this
and for me I also knew that if I am
gonna go after this I'm gonna need to
stop drinking stop party and completely
alter my entire existence I'm probably
gonna lose all my friends um everyone's
gonna laugh at me I didn't even know how
serious I took myself you know I was
like I laugh at me when I say this you
know like it's and if you knew me back
then he'd probably laughter like what do
you mean you're gonna fight he's stupid
as a stupidest thing I could ever think
of and one of my best friends mo he for
whatever reason this one night we were
up on the roof drinking and smoking weed
and he we got to talk him just about
life and he was actually born with a
heart defect I can't remember the exact
name of the disease that he had because
in hospitals this whole life he was
eventually gonna need to get a heart
transplant and said we're gonna do with
your life you know I looked at him like
he was asking me what would I want to do
when I got to the moon what do you mean
would oh and do with my life and he's
like oh well I always wanted to fight in
expecting him to laugh at me about this
he was like well why don't you why don't
you do it you know I told him well well
I feel old already I was 18 at the time
I've already felt ancient then
you know when I told him all my reasons
and all my fears and doubts and all
these things he's like you know women
he's like if anybody can do it you can
he's I gotta think you should and
they're really that always stuck with me
maybe I can and in that moment you know
I felt very motivated and one it's do it
but bide you know continuing to drink
and all these other things I just put it
suppressed it into the back of my mind
and then about a year later he was in
the hospital and he needed to get a
heart transplant and they basically he
was basically at that point I was like
you're gonna be here until you get one
or you're gonna die and you know I don't
think any of us realized how serious it
was or maybe we just didn't want to he
ended up passing away while he was
waiting for the transplant and that just
obviously devastated me to no end and
through that night through my drunken
coping I was like I'm gonna do this I'm
gonna go after this dream you know my
friend he didn't even get a chance to
fail at a dream and I'm too scared to
even try for no reason just out of fear
that was literally my only reason not to
do this other than you know financial
and all those other surface things but
it really just boiled down to fear and I
was like you know what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna go after this for him you know he
didn't get a chance to live i'ma live
for the both of us but you know
unfortunately his his death sent me even
harder down that downward spiral of
alcohol and depression and three years
later I I just had a realization one day
I was like if he was still alive he'd
beat the fuck out of me for wasting my
life I've been wasting my life for 21
years because I'm afraid you know I'm
afraid and a mom I'm too afraid to fail
I'm too afraid of all these stupid
reasons that that all of us give
ourselves in order to make ourselves
feel better about not going after things
but really they're just that they're
just that they're just excuses they're
just things that make you feel better
and they're bullshit they're all
bullshit almost every excuse we
his total bullshit because there's
people with those excuses and with all
those reasons and more and they're able
then they do it and like what is your
excuse and it just it just smacked me in
the face one day and I I was at that
point when I could not ignore it any
longer and this was going into 2003 so I
always like made it my new year's
resolution to do this and you know one
night I was sitting down with my father
and we'd have these pleas he'd get into
these long talks with me because just I
was always very quiet and he'd like tick
me off to the side and his way to kind
of talk to me and get to know me better
and he was like so won't you tell me
something you've never told anybody you
know I'm like we came him that you want
what can I like I killed somebody when I
was little I'm like like wracking my
brain what I could possibly tell him and
you know that that kept replaying in my
mind you want to fight you want to fight
you want to fight and very like quietly
so like I happen to fight one day and he
said what he's like I want to fight and
he's like what do you mean you want to
fight and you know I told him and he's
like well why don't you and I told mall
these reasons he's like well I cannot
help you with all of your fears and
doubts in this but look I'll make a deal
with you if you quit drinking and
dedicate yourself to this I'll take care
of every all the financial things in
order to let you do this I was like he
said we got a deal I was like all right
yeah and he's like Oh points Tao is
drinking a 40 at the time he's like what
about that drink in your hand I was like
well I was gonna start tomorrow so I
don't want to you know maybe I can
finish this but you know I understood
even at that age like you can't put
things off like that it was like you
know do if you're serious about it
you're gonna do it now so I dumped out
the rest of the 40 and the the sink he
had in there and two days later I got
into the gym and was it hard to wean
yourself off the alcohol though if you
were physically dependent on it was it
was both extremely difficult yet I was
so focused on this goal that none of
those I
I had to overcome so much not just the
physical dependence of the inalco but
but my lifestyle and I changed so many
things but I'd been putting this off for
so long that I knew there was there was
no time for me to waste you know I was
so focused on this that like once I made
that switch in my mind like I'm gonna go
after this and there's nothing that's
gonna stop me and I've wasted so many
years already that everything I'm doing
is is gonna be playing catch-up you know
there is no way for me to get to like
I'd look at you know that like Sancha
and guys like that and they're like I'm
never gonna get there so everything that
I do has to be to get me closer to this
goal and I can't allow you know my
physical dependency or my doubts or any
of these things slow me down because
everything I'm doing I have to play
catch-up you know and having that that
focus allowed me to overcome all of
those those physical and emotional and
mental challenges and of course that's
not to say it was easy was extremely
difficult it was extremely difficult but
it was you got two choices you know you
can you can allow these things to slow
you down and hinder you and weaken you
or you can say I'm gonna go forward
anyway it doesn't matter how afraid I am
it doesn't matter how hurt I am doesn't
matter how tired I am this is what I
want and I'm gonna put everything that I
have into this so that way when I'm done
when my or my life is over when I can't
do this anymore I can look back and have
no regrets that I didn't allow these
things to slow me down
I didn't allow the excuses that we all
have hinder me and keep me from doing
this you know because one day we're
gonna wake up and realize we could have
gone after these things and we didn't
because of X Y & Z but really those
things aren't aren't anything
you know do you stop and think about
those moments when you first started
this because that's a profound life
shift I like to go from being a guy
who's kind of aimless and partying a lot
but knowing that you should do something
with your life to finally doing
something like what was it like when you
finally started training well what did
it feel like when you actually because
you hadn't had you done anything
athletic before that you know I was I
was always asked like my whole life I
was always really good at sports I hated
I hated the team aspect of things though
my despised being on a team of any kind
I loved playing sports for that for the
love of it you know but any time I was
on like a team I would just hated it I
despised it and you know by the time I
was like I think 12 I completely turned
my back on anything team related because
I felt to me it felt like it just ruined
all the beautiful things about the
physicality of of athletics you know it
put this this mmm this honor it hindered
me in a lot of ways you know and having
to rely on other people you know was
always a big yeah you know it's like it
doesn't matter how hard I work because
this person might not have worked at all
right and you know that's why I'm so
drawn to fighting because it's it's even
though you do have a team of course it
really is
everything is on you the good and the
bad there's nothing you can point you
can point to all these other things but
it's really just you so yeah I I think
back and I look back to that time and
what was the first day like it was do
you remember yeah yeah I do it was so I
started out just doing private lessons
mmm I didn't even start doing classes
until maybe six months to a year so I
was I was doing private lessons on a
daily basis my trainer master Chen who
was one of toddies original instructors
he had me in the gym like 6 a.m. is
minimum so this is January in Vegas
which is brutally cold but you know a
lot of not a lot of people realize and
their gym had no heat all the windows
were like broken so there's no
insulation or anything
and I was I was just I was I was so
excited you know so nervous and you know
obviously I wanted to do really well and
perform and everything was just
everything was so new that I didn't
really I don't really have a lot I
couldn't even really process it so there
wasn't a lot of something really a lot
of thought that was going to it I was
just I was just excited I was just
constantly excited and motivated and
wanted to my whole goal was to fight you
know I was like I want to fight even if
it's only one time so everything I did
was with that mentality you know it's
like I want to get better I want to get
better I want do everything that I can
at every moment and I put every ounce of
myself into every second of the day was
geared towards this you know it was
singularly focused on this goal can you
remember the first day yeah I remember
the first day of footwork yeah oh man
the first day the first day he has me up
in the ring Oh must have been maybe the
second or third day because there was I
know there was other people there and
that maybe they were just hitting the
bag and stuff so there there was a
couple of the other pro fighters there
or other they were Pro fighters I was
nobody and I'm up in the ring and so
this is day one he's like shadowbox I've
never done anything
fighting relay time like what do you
mean like I don't even know what that is
you know what I'm saying like what do
you mean shadowbox so like so much of my
everything in my career has been like
thrown into the deep end can you swim
kind of thing and like this forced
learning curve you know you know I
didn't get babied into anything you know
it's like alright shadowbox go ahead and
ever you want all these fighters like
staring at me watching me I'm like
whatever you know it was it was it was
traumatic in a lot of ways but having to
confront that and face that particularly
Meek's I'm naturally a very shy person a
person that doesn't speak ever to
anybody I mean even now you know I'm
still very quiet but if you
me back then I was basically a mute you
know and I had no interaction with
especially strangers and people I didn't
know and even the ones that I do I'd
still barely even communicate with so
all of this was so foreign to me this
was like an alternate universe that I
was in and yeah it was it was it was so
scary but it was like you don't have a
choice
like get up there and do it or get the
fuck out of here you know what I mean so
there wasn't there wasn't time for me to
really think about it or like even be
really nervous about it's like do it
shadowbox like and in and this
instructor you barely spoke English it's
not like I can like say hey well I don't
really know what I'm doing and maybe you
can show me some things just like go any
that's very much a Thai approach it's
like just do it
I'm not gonna tell you how I'm not gonna
explain the steps just go kick the bag
or hit it just do it and yeah it was it
was scary but then once you got some
momentum once you had a couple of weeks
under your belt and this started
becoming a real normal part of your life
what was that feeling like what you
realized like hey I'm fucking actually
doing this yeah it's this is actually
happening well every day every day I was
taking significant jumps I mean as I
said I've always been naturally athletic
so I was picking this up like quick
really quick I mean even within a few
weeks people thought I'd been doing it
for years you know and a lot of that you
know does come from my fisk ality but
but my drive to do it and into it to to
have my sights set so high that you know
I was taking these quantum leaps every
single day so over over the weeks and
over the months you know it just it
really felt like I was like oh I'm on
I'm on track you know I'm I'm on the
path I should be on I'm gonna I'm gonna
be amazing at this you know this is
great I'm natural at this you know I'm
gonna be um being a champion one day I'm
gonna just be crushing people and you
know everything everything was pointing
in that door
you know with my my development and you
know started eventually going into the
classes and sparring and all those kinds
of things and you know it was always
like when do I get to fight when do I
get to fight when do I get to fight and
I think it was nine months in I finally
got I got to fight and I was like oh
this is it this is this is my moment you
know I'm gonna go out there you know I'm
gonna crush this dude and then I'm gonna
be you know on my way to the big time
not that they're even you know back then
there's no big time there was no this
wasn't this was before YouTube this is
before anyone even knew what Muay Thai
was you know yet to tell everybody you
did kickboxing basically which just
crushed my soul every time every time
say well it's like kickboxing and you
know for Muay Thai people to have to say
that is it's devastating it's like
someone say well it's like karate
you know it's no disrespect to any of
these other arts but but to say that
it's that in order to help people you
most of the time I would just say yeah
yeah yeah it's like keep boxing instead
of having to explain to them what it is
and yeah so nine months in I got the
there was going to be a fight in Salt
Lake City Utah and a bunch of the other
people at the gym were fighting as well
and we were all going to go up there and
compete is this an amateur fight yeah
yeah head gear mm-hmm no yes head gear
but you know the funny thing was we had
head gear but we didn't have shin guards
we had eight ounce gloves and we hadn't
eased the head well which was a trip so
anyway so so I was like oh yeah great we
get the fight and I was so excited and
my pops and Gina and we we drove up
there and you know like I said I really
felt like I was on my way but when we
got there the guy that I was originally
supposed to fight I remember if he
backed out or it was just that he was
closer and wait till somebody else you
know and that was kind of the thing back
then we would just show up at places and
be like
you gotta fight for me or don't you and
they didn't and I was like I was
devastated
I was devastated I'm like I did all this
work I was so ready and now I don't have
a fight and you know my turn is like
well is there somebody else you get and
so the the the the promoter you know
he's calling around coming around and
then he find these like well there's one
guy that's going to take it but he
always you buy 20 pounds and he's had
about 30 fights already I was like let's
do it
I don't give a fuck and I was like I
didn't do all this for nothing you know
what I'm saying and you know and again
that like that was just our mentality
the way that we came up and the people
that we came up under was you fight
anytime anywhere anyone any style any
weight it doesn't matter
and so yeah I didn't even I didn't even
really think about it as far as like
that goes you know I was like I get to
fight that's a fucking awesome man and
uh I felt I felt confident in a way but
it's also that you have no idea what
you're really doing like you can train
your whole life but if you've never
fought you don't know anything anything
you have no concept of what it's like to
be in there you get the hardest sparring
in the world with a complete stranger
and it's night and day between a real
fight and sparring and so it's like yeah
you you you want to feel confident going
in there but you have no concept of what
it is so it's really just fake its fake
confidence and I got a fucking crush man
so I got there and I you know I have no
concept of like pacing myself or
anything so I just like I'm like
sprinting at this guy and in like 30
seconds I was done I couldn't breathe I
couldn't think I couldn't I could barely
even see felt like felt like I was
underwater and it was it was the worst
thing in the world cuz nothing this guy
was doing was hurting me and every time
he'd hit me the whole crowd
and all I wanted to do is just say it is
it's bothering me this isn't hurting
like I wanted to like tell everybody
like this isn't hurting me
I can't breathe like all I'm really
trying to do is not pass out right now
and and I I mean like physically I I
couldn't do anything but but I was able
to last for a while and do a couple
decent things in there but by the third
round he was just battering me kneed me
in the face and you know he did he just
kept clenching me up and we're just
kneading the piss out of me and there
was nothing I could do and they finally
stopped it in the third round and I was
devastated man I was devastated and I
remember walking like I was I was
walking back to the the locker room
everyone in the crowd was like cheering
for me like oh that was awesome and like
like a job good job like what is wrong
with these people like that wasn't good
that was so terrible that's terrible and
I was like laying in the back I'm
bleeding all over the place and my
opponent comes in he's like dude that
was your first fight so yeah man I hate
to see you in like a year or two he's
like that was I was amazing and you know
that really I really stuck with me know
that that one that he said that and also
just the the impact I saw that you could
have on people that that it's not
necessarily about whether you win or
lose that it's what you show in there
it's the heart that you show it's the
the spirit that you show and you know I
had like a day or two and I was like
maybe this just isn't for me you know I
thought I thought that this that I was
gonna be so good at this I thought that
it was just gonna like skyrocket to the
top and I got crushed man I didn't even
make it out of the fight and like maybe
this isn't for me but I was forced to
face that day one like do you want to do
this regardless of how good you are
regardless of you win if you if you
can't win and maybe you can't be the
best in the world do you still want to
do this yeah I fucking do I love this so
much and me having to face that so early
on was was was extremely significant I
sought so many of the people I trained
with would go on these undefeated
streaks like 10 15 20 fights but
inevitably you will lose and
if you haven't had to confront that
early on eventually you do most of those
people never fought again or just like
crush them mentally where they weren't
able to overcome it but I had to do with
that the first day and overcome and be
like you know what that doesn't matter
I'm gonna I'm gonna bust my ass and
Jimdo make sure that never happens again
and I went on to win like 19 20 fights
in a row from there and you know that
was really a significant moment in my
career where I had to confront the the
reality of this and you know that so
much of fighting is is this as a perfect
metaphor for effort for things in life
like if you really want something you
can't always focus on what the results
are or the immediate results like
winning and losing and all of these
things are so much of that is just on
the surface ego level of things yeah and
when you break it all down like what is
your why are you doing this I'm doing
this because I love it I'm doing this to
improve myself I'm doing this because
it's what keeps me healthy mentally
physically spiritually and all of these
things and that's the most important
thing and yes it was an extreme
motivator to be better and you know not
to let that have happened to me again
but you know really it really made
things clear to me early on like what's
important here also just to get over
that it's so it's so psychologically
important that you like you were saying
you just kept getting sort of tossed to
the walls everything you did was
difficult it was almost symbolic of your
journey that you were forced to fight
someone who had 30 fights and 20 pounds
heavier when you had no experience the
trusting the process is you really only
trust the process if it's difficult yeah
you know that whole expression trust the
prize well if you're fucking everybody
up what do you mean trust the process
you're out there just flocking everybody
up course I'm trusting I'm the man yeah
right but when you get your ass handed
to you and then you have to rebuild and
you have to realize well there's a
series of variables in your encountering
variables and speed and in in
aggressiveness and in styles and in
trickery and some people are better than
others at figuring you out and some
people have a style that's tailor-made
to defeat your style and it's good when
that does happen yeah and not just to
trust a process but to appreciate the
journey yeah yeah and sometimes people
they just want success mm-hmm yeah of
course we all want we always want things
to be good it's it's kind of that same
mentality of you know like you want to
give your kids what you never had but a
lot of times you do that you end up with
a spoiled brat who has no concept of
work ethic and what really takes and
you're hindering them even more so than
than you were cuz you had to like
confront all these things right you know
what I'm saying and it's it's
unfortunate that so many things that you
would think would help us or really hurt
us in the end and it needs to be
difficult it needs to be a struggle and
of course you want help along the way
but though the harder you have to work
that in the long run the stronger you're
going to be the better you're going to
be the more independence you're going to
be the more self-sufficient you're going
to be and all of these things are gonna
better you so then a lot of ways is like
maybe I should make my kid's life hell
and then he's gonna be really strong and
he's gonna be an entrepreneur and he's
gonna change the world
I don't know yeah it's it's hard you
know I have children it's uh it's tricky
I think you don't want him to have a
hard life but you do one of the most
difficult things too is we're all on our
own journey and what's beneficial for
one is detrimental to somebody else so
yeah it's good to have advice it's good
to have somebody that believes in you
but that's not necessarily going to help
you just because sometimes that might
end up hurting you you know having a
people that do believe in you and
telling you how great you are and you
know opening doors for you and in all
these things you know in many ways those
things can be extremely detrimental and
you don't you don't develop the things
that you inevitably will need in the
long run you know and there's no there's
no one way to get anywhere you know
it's there's so complex and there's so
many variations of things that that that
apply to success in anything I have one
favorite day in the weather in Los
Angeles the weather in Los Angeles is
perfect right it's just so often it's
like 80 degrees and sunny it's like 90
percent of time 80 degrees and sunny me
and my friend Brian and my friend Steve
Rinella we filmed this television show
called meat-eater and went on a hunting
trip in Prince of Wales Island in Alaska
where it's the rainiest part in North
America
it's so fucking rainy you you think
you're gonna stay dry in your tent but
there's no such thing as dry like and I
realized this one of the first nights I
had to get up to take a piss in the
middle of the night and I had a headlamp
and I turned my headlamp on and inside
my tent was like it was raining because
it was so much there was mist it was
moisture like so much moisture that
turning on the headlamp was like you you
were like doing it in fog like
everything was wet my sleeping bag was
wet my clothes were wet and I was like
oh you don't you don't get dry there's
no dry we had one day we had a fire one
day we figured out how to start a fire
actually using Fritos there's a pro tip
if you ever fucking Fritos are made with
some fucking crazy toxic grease that
they work great as lighter fuel like if
you like them they stay lit for a long
time and then we were like taking like
the inside of logs and like using that
wood and wood that was like maybe under
the bottom of other wood so it didn't
get as wet we slowly put a fire together
anyway I was there for six seven days we
got back to LA and it was 80 and sunny
and the feeling of that Sun I was like
this is the same Sun I always experience
but it's always just you know it's
normal it's no big deal it's just
California weather another day in
paradise but not that day that day I was
like fuck this is amazing I was driving
on the street my face felt good like
everything it felt good and I called my
friend Steve up I go dude I've never
been happier like this is like the
happiest day I've ever experienced yeah
and I think it's because we were
suffering in just cold and rain for
seven days yeah like you need that yeah
other one cuz if you just have these
goddamn sunny days you like everybody
out here in California he just spoiled
baby well it's like the if everybody's
winning nobody's winning rises nobody's
losing so if you don't have the good and
the bad you don't even understand you
can't appreciate the good or what the
bad can be yeah there's the helpful
things that it does and you know yeah we
don't want that but but those are the
things that help you grow and those are
the things that that we never really
need you know I hate to well I don't
hate to because I want to do this I'm
going to toss a little hand grenade at
you and you know see what you want to do
with it here but I've been thinking
about this a lot lately and you know
wanting to communicate my story in these
things that have happened to me and then
this opportunity came up and this
opportunity to reach a lot of people and
to there's that quote that says be the
person that you needed when you were
younger you know and and Gina has that
honor wall and it stares me in the face
every day and I realize that I now and
the person that I needed when I was
younger and if somebody would have
opened up their mouth and let me know
that I wasn't alone in that that I
wasn't so isolated and so many so many
horrible things that we all deal with is
because we feel isolation we don't think
anyone could understand and we don't
think that anyone else is going through
these things and and if we did just that
knowledge of not being alone would be so
significant but when I was 14 years old
I was molested by my stepmother and this
went on for well over a year close to
two years and it was obviously
detrimental to me and these are these
these are things that I'm just now
finally starting to be able to
understand and
and realize like what happened to me and
realize how young that was at the time
you know when I meet of a 14 year old
kid like you're buckin baby you're a
baby you you know it's like when we
think about ourselves when we were
younger like at least myself I'm like I
still feel the same I did when I was
younger I was just little you know what
I mean yeah but you don't really
understand how little you were until you
have like a little 12 14 year old kid
standing next to you like you're nothing
like you don't even how could how could
that happen in like thinking about how
so I study that said one in six males
are abused by the time they're 18 which
means every one of us probably know
somebody that this has happened to you
know and to think how devastating it is
to women but but what turn man it's it's
it's it's such a different thing because
you're almost it's almost viewed aspect
well and when it happens from a woman
you know it's almost viewed as like a
good thing yeah like it's a positive
thing like oh I wish that happened to me
when I was a kid like I want to I want
to be molested and you know we're not
able to really understand it and
understand the damage that it that it
does and and you know I I if I wouldn't
have felt so alone and so isolated at
the time I you know I don't necessarily
know if things would have changed but I
definitely would have wouldn't have felt
so alone you know and it felt like
there's nobody in the world that could
possibly understand that there's nobody
that and who can I talk to about this
you know like I can't talk to my friends
a couple of my friends knew they thought
it was the coolest shit ever you know
they're like I want that I want that bad
and I'm like well was your stepmom too
which is dude it was it was so confusing
you know as I was I was very conflicted
by it you know like I couldn't
understand it at all and then to have
person like mentally manipulating
meeting mate and make it like oh it's
not a big deal it's okay it's almost
like it's a good thing you know like
it's like there's nothing wrong you know
it's it's you know I'm not a stranger
and this you know even prior to that as
I said I started drinking when I was 12
but but this really just derailed me so
much and made me internalize and put up
these barriers and walls around me and
things that I like I said I'm only even
just in at this age starting to
understand like the negative habits that
this created in me of distrust enough of
negativity enough of you know having to
be having to be alone and not trust
people and you know so many things like
that that you know like Gina's probably
the only person that I've ever talked to
in depth about this I mean my couple of
people my family know and almost none of
my friends know I've never spoken to
this to anybody you know III I try to go
to a therapist once and talk about this
but I started realizing like this
therapist is getting more out of this or
our interaction and then I am like he's
you know like a overweight person and
he's like self confident self I'm like
oh geez man like like who can I I can
talk to about this and you know maybe
maybe I can't talk to anybody but I am
in a position to where I can reach out
and let other people that know that
they're not the only ones going through
this and that has been weighing on me so
much lately especially over the last few
years none like you are in a position to
be able even if you only helps one
person that you can you just don't know
how to like well I could write about it
or I could do like a video blog or
something and I've been thinking about
this a lot lately gonna how do i how can
I do this and like should I do this and
like I don't
that's like a good thing it's not like
I'm a like psychologist or someone that
can like help with this and but I just
felt like I need to express this and and
and and communicate this in and maybe it
can do some good for even one person and
in if I didn't like that would haunt me
forever i I had an experience when I was
13 with a girl who lived up the street
who was 21 a couple times but is very
different than your experience it was
I mean I'm ashamed to say it it was kind
of fun you know it's it was different
it was I couldn't believe it it's very
weird yeah but it definitely like kind
of screwed up my idea of what boy-girl
interaction was I didn't go from like
thirteen year olds most the time they're
like you want to kiss old you I don't
know yeah - you know this girl grabbing
my dick and pulling her tits out she was
a woman you know she was 21
and it didn't it didn't hurt me like
your story like your story hurts like it
sounds like you were betrayed and you
were you were saying also that the fact
that was your stepmom I mean with me it
was like what the fuck was that all
about and I don't I I didn't tell
anybody
yeah I didn't tell anybody for like
fucking years and years later I probably
didn't tell anyone until I was in my 20s
and I think I probably told a girlfriend
when I was in my 20s yeah
and she was like when was the first time
you ever fooled around like Wow because
that was really the first time I had
ever fooled around with anyone was just
21 year old woman what else it was the
same thing for me you know I I didn't
even kiss a girl in tow is I don't know
12 13 like it late late yeah cuz I was
such a shy person so I went from just
kissing to that I there was no
in-between I think the same with me I
think I don't even think I kissed I
think I kissed her yeah I think she was
the first person I kissed you know
yeah and you know to just have your
innocence ripped away like that and to
be thrust into this adult thing you know
obviously the situation was that much
worse
it being you know my stepmom and it
being being molested and you know it
it's such a different thing than a woman
are being raped forcefully raped so it's
way different you know but
psychologically and emotionally you know
it's it's it's it's devastating it is it
is obviously and you're living with her
as well yeah yes that's the whole
thing's terrible and you should have
went on for a year longer than year it
was probably close to two years how did
it stop I stopped it actually you know
this was this was something you know I
never obviously I never felt right about
this I was a very conflicted by it you
know no I was like just definitely isn't
a good thing like I don't know like I
know I definitely I didn't understand
how bad of a thing it was you know I
mean and again she was very manipulative
and you know anytime I would kind of
bring that subject of like yeah I don't
think this is okay you know this is this
feels wrong and she's like you know you
know and find this way to you know
rationalize it or make it okay and you
know but time went on like I just like
there this is bad
how old was she she was probably 30
young 30s you know now that was another
thing like once I got to that age and
then I saw a 14 year old I'm like what
the fuck
like I didn't even I couldn't even
conceptualize how twisted this person
was until I got that age how could you
how could you look at a baby a child and
and do that how could you do that you
know that expression hurt people hurt
people
yeah and you know in in in and
unfortunately a lot of that for me is
helps you like rationalize it and make
it
like oh well you know she's fucked up
and you know even even my father you
know after you found out like he kept
this lady around for a while really yeah
after he found out yeah I mean they they
they kind of split up and divorce but
but um they kind of work together still
and you know he kept her around for for
quite some time and you know that alone
was extremely damaging to me and
betrayal such a betrayal and such a such
a traumatic thing that I didn't even
really understand how damaging that was
after the fact until really till
recently you know because I myself would
rationalize it well you know he didn't
want to like like be an asshole and like
sent her off like she was an alcoholic
too and you know you know it was like oh
you know he's just trying to you know
make this horrible situation like okay
for all of us and you know I didn't
really think about like how fucked up he
was in the whole situation and like how
how much more damaging it was in the
long-run to me by not having my father
protect me like if Mike this happened to
my child I would fucking murder a woman
that did this you know I certainly
wouldn't keep her around you know and I
certainly wouldn't like just handle it
handle it the way that he did you know
and that was that was almost it
magnified the the damage that much more
so because of the way that it was
handled you know and to not have that to
not be taken care of by adults by not be
taken care of by my father by the people
around me that who were supposed to love
me and take care of me and and and they
did the exact opposite like they fucked
fuck to my world up you know and III put
band-aids of alcohol on it my whole life
you know and it and I understand like
why I why I did that and why it was I
mean I really was trying to kill myself
really I mean when you look at it that's
what I was doing I was just doing
process of it you know and that's that's
that's what we do it's like we don't
want to take a gun and kill ourselves
but I'm gonna I don't want to really
live and I want to like I want to check
out of this place sooner the better so
I'm gonna do everything in my power to
make it happen and that way I can't say
I killed myself but I was killing myself
everyday and putting myself in
situations I were extremely dangerous
and detrimental and damaging and that's
what I was doing and didn't you know a
half of my life was I was just destroyed
and you know I'm trying to use this
second part of my life to make up for
that make up for the damage that was
done and to try to turn a horrible
situation in a negative situation
something that I could easily point to
and allowed destroy my life which is
what I was doing and trying to do the
opposite you know it's again with it
that the fight approaches like you have
a loss you have a horrible thing
happening you have an injury what are
you gonna do with it are you gonna let
it destroy you and break you and never
do this again and then be depressed and
bitch and complain and whine about it
we're gonna say yeah shitty things
happen to all of us
fucked-up things happened and we all
have the excuse to let it destroy our
lives and to use it to make ourselves
feel better about mmm drinking and drugs
and just being an asshole and you know
like we all have reasons to be dicks and
we all have reasons to you know take it
out on other people
but that doesn't mean that you should
and that doesn't mean that you don't
still have a choice it's that victim
mentality and that this is something
that I I just just started understanding
because you know that that term victim
is telling me I'm like yeah well I
almost fucking victim but what victim
mentality really is is feeling like you
don't have a role to play from that
point yeah you might not have been able
to control these terrible things that
have happened to you
but you do have control over what you do
from there you have control over
whether you use that to go into a more
positive light or you use that to to
drastically damage you and you know be
this burden that you carry well
sometimes I think when someone like you
goes through something like this and
comes out on the other end what you can
do by talking about this can set a path
for so many people to understand that
you know someone looks at you you know
they see fighting on television and they
they they see you on the internet and
you know successful Muay Thai fighter
and you know you look cool you have this
beautiful girlfriend everything seems so
positive you know when you're a young
kid and your life is shit like mine was
clearly like yours was you you look at
these people like they're nothing like
you they're aliens they're there's some
different things they they're they're
there it's the world is opened up to
them so easily yeah and they're better
than you when someone hears you talk
about your experience the alcoholism the
abuse the isolation the feeling like a
loser and all the things that are so
relatable to so many people when you can
talk about this you can you your your
setting a map that other people can
follow yeah and this is something that's
so important in culture and in human
beings we're all part of some strange
evolution of the human race and the
things that our grandparents went
through were likely
un-fuckin'-believable horrific the
things their grandparents wore it went
through we're probably magnitudes worse
and this is just how human beings have
gone from being monkeys to being what we
are now and it's happening very rapidly
yeah and one of the things that
accelerates this understanding of
consequences and of the ability to rise
to the occasion and overcome obstacles
and to be able to use adversity as a
tool to better yourself it's someone
like you what you're doing right now is
very very beneficial to so many people
millions of people listening to this
right now and so many of them this is
gonna resonate with them they're gonna
say oh this guy who is this fuckin
badass kickboxer MoIT excuse me wait I
play bad ass dude who's just like you
know like people admire you and to hear
this is so it's so powerful I mean
that's it I'm so glad you said it I'm so
glad you talked to all of it from the
beginning you know your your earlier
struggles to this because this is
medicine for people man there's a lot of
people that are hearing this right now
and they're going I can do it too
I can do it too yeah and that's that's
always been a motivational thing for me
to try to be honest with the the things
that I deal with the ups and the downs
and to to show my losses to show my
injuries to show to be vocal about the
doubts that I have that that I still
have that I still deal with you know
it's it's easy to look at these people
in the spotlight and be like they don't
deal with fear they don't deal with pain
they don't deal with doubts they don't
deal with feeling like they're
inadequate yeah I think I'm it moves a
clip or something you were talking about
the imposter syndrome yeah and I'm like
yeah like it doesn't matter how amazing
you seemingly are on the outside to all
of these people like we're all just
human beings we are all just individuals
that have made choices and have steered
our lives in certain directions but but
it's almost like when you make it tool
points like oh they don't deal with this
anymore yeah I deal with the exact same
fears doubts in all of these things that
I dealt with day one to this day I'd
still deal with them those same
questions they've never gone away ever
going away you know you learn how to
handle them better and you learn you
should get strengthened by them but but
they don't necessarily disappear and a
lot of times they can get worse over the
years because now you're now you're in a
position where you're expected to be a
certain way people have people have
expectations of you you know you you're
supposed to be this superhuman being or
you supposed to be extremely calm
are you supposed to only put on a plus
performances and you're not allowed to
fail you're not allowed to be human
anymore and the when we can humanize
these things and in it lets people
realize that they can do it too
you know we're not we're not necessarily
made up of anything different than
anybody else you know we've just gone
through a process of learning and
developing and diving off of cliffs that
we didn't know where they were going and
you know that's that's what we all have
to do you know like the people and these
spotlights they're they're just human
beings yeah and the more you that you
you meet them and read about their
stories and you know that's why I live
with reading autobiographies like jeez
like that thing's these people if I
don't come they weren't handed anything
if more than anything it was more
devastating and detrimental and they've
had to overcome more than you could
possibly imagine
and in it wasn't just given to them they
had to work and strive and struggle and
fail fail over and over and over and
over and over and over and over again
until they got to where they got to
instill do they still do they still fail
constantly we all fail constantly yeah
well failure is a gift yeah once you
make that switch do you understand it
like you can view these losses or these
things that happen or these struggles as
you know I always view them as
challenges like are you gonna quit are
you gonna give up I always view like
when I'm tired in the ring or in on a
workout of me like you won't quit like
fuck you man
you know I view that like that that that
voice in your head you know that the
devil that's looming over your shoulders
like you're gonna quit your failure you
feeling like you know what fuck you I'm
not quitting I'm never gonna quit I'm
never gonna stop and there's nothing you
can do so keep talking but I'm going
forward is there a time will you ever
get past that and you understand that
you're never gonna quit and instead just
concentrate on the task at hand or do
you think that that that voice that
you're duking it out with that you take
that motherfucker to the grave you
definitely take it to the grave you
I think we feel like we get farther away
from it and we get stronger and we get
more confident but it never gets far
that you never get farther away from it
you know like it like I compared to my
alcoholism it's like I could go ten
years without ever drinking again but
all it takes is one bad day yeah
we are all one bad day oh yeah being in
the worst situations ever and that's why
it's so important to you know you look
at people on the streets and things like
that like you know easy that can happen
yeah like how many bad days are bad
situations would it take to turn a
successful person into that not a lot no
we're all just balancing on this very
yeah delicate thing that you know it
seems like we're all strong and safe and
all this like well when the power goes
out and you know that the world's gonna
go to hell like that yes we just pretend
like it's not right that's how we get
through the day so but yeah like to your
point is I don't think we're ever any
farther away from those things that held
us back before we get stronger than we
learn how to process them and we we we
understand it more and we understand
that the series of things that we need
that will take us down that road or or
get us farther away from it but it but
it's just right there you know and no
matter how much we learn and develop I
think you know sometimes I mix it a yurt
it's like the higher you get the farther
you have to fall and and it's the more
you can be aware of that that you're
never gonna get farther away from it you
always need to be diligent that you
always need to do things that are going
to steer you in a more positive way I
think that it that is like the goal to
to not falling back on that that's I
think the worst thing that we can do is
have this belief that were past it no
that's never gonna happen again I'm I'm
not an alcoholic anymore I'm not a drug
act anymore I'm not depressed anymore
that's what that's what's helped me is
is I I did think I one day I would be so
far away from it that it would never be
a thought anymore but but by knowing
that it's always right there that keeps
me sharp yeah you know it's like that
that you need that thing to keep you at
your best or else we start to get lazy
it's that that that same concept of
having people that push you in the gym
or in life or or excetera if if you
don't have somebody pushing you you can
only ever push yourself so hard you
might think you're pushing yourself
really hard but you don't really have a
basis for where that is so like for
myself I always run my sprints on a
treadmill because the treadmill doesn't
lie this is how fast you're going and
this is how long you're doing it now you
can go out on the street and say I was
going as fast as humanly possible you're
always gonna hold yourself back a little
bit you know that's just the way we are
as human beings you know that that
safety net that we have ingrained in us
to not go over that edge but if you're
not pushing that edge you're not
developing and you're always holding
yourself back a little bit a little bit
and no matter how hard you think you're
going or how honest you think you're
being unless you have somebody aside so
important to have people in your lives
that that keep you in that sharpened
state you know that that that that that
question you yeah that that push you and
you know like like for me jeana's always
been that way for me that person like
she's not gonna look look at my mom and
let me bullshit you know it's keep me
honest you know sometimes to do an
extreme extent and like give me a little
bit of a break here you know it's like
that person that that pushes you and
it's uncomfortable to be pushed and you
don't want to be pushed I want to relax
I don't want to like sit on the beach
and drink beers and do all these things
but is that gonna help me get to a
better place in my life a better place
in my mind in my heart now that's gonna
allow me to just like be a lazy piece of
shit and just drift off and die and be
no benefit to to myself or anyone else
for that matter so as uncomfortable as
it is to be pushed and as I
what it is to be pressured into want to
excel we all need those things you
either improving your or your decline
yeah and I think that's such an
important thing to keep in mind like
it's only one or the other
yeah there is no in the middle it's like
the concept of balance you never find
balance because once you find it you
lose it
you're always jumping on both sides of
this line too much or too little you're
are they going too fast or too slow
yeah and we're trying to find that
perfect balance of everything and you'll
never can find it but knowing that you
never can find it forces you to be
diligent about all these things and to
constantly be trying to find it and the
more you try to find that the more
you're going to develop and learn ways
that aren't the right way and then
finding what what does work it's like
trying to find your calling and your
passion life is like you don't have
enough to necessarily know what that is
but Whittle it down by what don't you
want to take what do you hate what do
you hate right don't even look like what
you like what do you hate I don't wanna
do this I don't want to uh said I wanted
this I I'd learned very early on at a
young age like I do not want to go down
this path that I see everybody on this
go to school get a job have kids get
married retired I like III don't want I
don't want that I don't know what I do
want I just know that to me I don't want
anything to do with that and I'm gonna
go in the exact opposite direction
whatever that is as long as I'm far away
from that that's a swarm gonna be well
it's one of the benefits of being an
outsider yeah when you're an outsider
and you see all these people that are
supposedly doing the right thing but
living these sort of empty meaningless
lives that they don't enjoy particularly
that they don't enjoy you know and then
you know when I was a kid I always
looked at normal people living normal
eyes I could never relate I never
understood it you know I also grew up
from a broken home and we were also on
welfare and you know the whole deal good
I think a lot of motivated people come
from a place of despair when they're
younger you know and I always had this
thought in my
had that one day I wouldn't make it one
day I'm gonna make it I'm gonna make it
and then one day I realized and I don't
know when I realized it probably went
like on paper had already made it yeah I
realized oh there's no such place like
this is not real like you can't ever you
don't make it
no man no one makes it yeah like if
every day you have to be trying to do
better every day you have to be trying
first of all there's no perfect human
let's accept that you're always gonna be
flawed you're always gonna you're always
gonna be subject to fits of rage and
envy and and all the things that you
wish that you would never have in your
mind so you're gonna constantly be
working to make sure that that never
happens you can constantly be working to
make sure that you are always evaluating
your perspective on life and always
looking at things from meditate
constantly meditate make sure that you
approach life with a learned perspective
like you're a better person you were the
day before and whatever you're trying to
do whether it's fighting or whether
you're you have an art form that you
practice whatever it is that you're
doing you're trying to do better every
day and you never even if you you'll
accomplish someone like when you know
you accomplished some amazing work of
art that's just that day the next day
you got to go back to work like if you
have a world championship fight and
you've trained for eight weeks and you
win by knockout the spectacular result
and you're very happy with the result
you got a day or two to relax yeah you
got a day or two and then you're like
fuck okay now what well now you got to
get back to work and if you if you think
that there's someplace like a movie
where you're holding hands with your
loved ones and the fucking Sun sets go
on and the credits roll that's horseshit
and we have this idea in our head that
there's this place that you can get to
where you have air quotes made it yeah
and I'm here to tell you that
motherfucker doesn't exist I mean
obviously I'm not the most successful
person in the world but on paper I've
accomplished a lot of shit and it
doesn't mean a goddamn thing every
fucking day every fucking day I get up
and I'm like I gotta figure out how to
do this I gotta work on this new bit
okay I got its podcast today I gotta be
on point let me think about this let me
read this book let me come you know
whatever the subject is let me get--aw
let me get into it you you have to if
you don't you're you're gonna feel like
shit
yeah it's that at that destination
mentality yeah destination yeah it's
just a journey you're never gonna get
there
there's doesn't exist there's nowhere to
go as soon as you get there like jeez
I'm just as far away from that thing
that I thought because as you develop
your the things that you think you want
develop - yeah one day I'm gonna be rich
but the richer that you get the richer
you want to become well then you start
filling up your life with these
meaningless destinations right which are
material objects I want to fucking yacht
bitch yeah I want a jet you know and
you're like I want a bigger job Tom's
got a fucking jet but I want a big jet I
want to show I'll pull my jet up beside
his yellow no motherfucker there's
levels to this game you know and that's
what people do and it's they fill their
lives up with meaningless possessions
and they're you know aren't happy a
band-aid to cover up the like what is
the real thing here do you not me really
successful people I know that are
fucking medicated to shit all of them a
lot of them a lot more more more more
more so than the people that aren't in
jazz should the people that struggle
they're on a better medication for real
the struggle of like like a hard working
person that can get get done with a day
of hard work and have a feeling of
accomplishment and then go home to your
family and get going again knowing you
have to get up in the morning and do it
again knowing you don't have enough
money to buy a yacht but knowing you
have enough money to put food on the
table and there's a satisfaction to
being able to provide that that's a
better medicine well that's the thing
with with why it's so important and
vital to to travel and you know go to
this third-world countries like these
people literally have nothing and are
inviting perfect strangers into their
homes and giving them things that they
do not even have themselves like why are
these people so happy why are they so at
peace right because they understand
what's important that it's not this
materialistic thing and and that's not
to say that material are bad
but we view them as these these these
objects of success and and I've made it
and I've things are perfect in my life
and they are they do they exact opposite
in a lot of ways if you don't have a
good grasp of what's really important in
this life and and and unfortunately a
lot of times we need everything taken
away for us to really understand what
those things really are yeah you can
appreciate some things you can
appreciate a nice car or a nice house
but if you get really caught up in them
you are trying to fill up a bucket with
a hole in it yeah and it's never gonna
fill up yeah you're always just gonna
look for bigger and bigger things to try
to fill that bucket up and and you're
gonna feel full of anxiety all the time
chasing that you know and there's no
real there's no real satisfaction then
that's why you know when you look at one
of the things that people look at when
you look at people that are extremely
materialistic that you know where the
the most fancy jewelry and drive the
most fancy cars and the biggest houses
we always think they're shallow
always I mean isn't that funny like the
thing that you would look at in terms of
like Mallick markers for success Marcus
is like material things are the big ones
right there the big markers for success
the big house that's the big one right
yeah ass fucking mansion look everything
big everything the big fucking rock on
its finger yeah big chain you know big
this big that there's nothing there
there's nothing there and so ingrained
in us from the time that door born cuz
it's hard to get yes that's why it's a
trick it's one of those things it's hard
to get so you think you want to get it
yeah because there's a lot of things
that are hard to get that are worth
getting for sure right I mean becoming a
great fighter is hard yeah but it's
worth doing because once you do do it
and you you realize like like there's an
expression that I've used before but my
tagua no instructor said to me when I
was a little boy he said martial arts
are a vehicle for developing your human
potential yeah and I remember that I
mean like oh shit like and I've used
that many times explain it to people but
that is the benefit of getting good at a
martial art yeah like you go through
this
difficult thing and then through that
you reap all these personality rewards
you reap these character rewards you
reap this understanding of what you're
capable of right if you are capable of
making it through a brutal camp and
getting up in the morning when you know
you don't want to that alarm clock goes
off and you're like I don't want to
fucking run but you do it you go out and
run and you do it every day and you get
through it and then you're successful
and you realize that you have this
incredible endurance because of the
discipline that you put in you realize
that you have this incredible skill and
it's understanding of how to fight
correctly because of all the time and
the hours and the focus you're a better
person because of that right that's a
real goal but that yacht you know like
the like well I'm gonna I'm gonna work
16 hours a day so I can get a bigger
yacht and then you know I need a house
with bigger windows I need a it's this
is a nonsense to that like look I'm not
saying if you can afford a nice house
get a fucking nice house it's great to
have a nice house what I'm saying is
it's not the end yeah it's the you you
are the project your mind is the project
yeah how you treat people is the project
how you your the way you are with your
family and your friends and your loved
ones and the people you communicate with
get better at that yeah that's that's
that's the goal in this life the goal in
this life is how we treat each other I
know now I wish these were things that
we were taught no no no it's better it's
better that you didn't learn that
because you had figured yes cuz you got
to figure it out yourself n because you
can explain it to people that's you in
particularly you can explain it to
people having gone through this horrific
adversity and come out on the other end
with a message yeah and so other people
that are going through some tough shit
you've got the medicine the medicine is
your you've actually experienced it and
you know it's a map it's a map of the
territory it's not it's not a fucking
pill that you can take and all sudden
everything's going to be better but what
it is is a map of the territory and you
know and and a knowledge hey you can get
through these woods and on the other
side there's a beautiful green meadow
and there's a lake and it's really nice
yeah for sure you know I think that that
was one
one of the benefits of the way I grew up
which was just really hard and horrible
but I got to see firsthand both sides of
money you know I went from living in a
basement with five of the people and
living on welfare to living with my
father and a mansion and it's like oh
yeah all this money and all this stuff
is just emptiness and in meaningless and
and it doesn't necessarily equate to
real happiness you know like why are we
all chasing this so hard and I got to
see that firsthand very very early on I
was like I don't want this well it's a
trick it's like the same reason why
people love to play video games because
they're difficult but there's no there's
no real reward unless you're a
professional video game player and you
make a living doing it nowadays there's
no real reward you just get better at it
and you get some sort of a sense of
satisfaction and I mean there's a
there's something to be gained from it
in fact some video games they've
actually shown can increase your
cognitive performance and other things
similar to the way chess does right but
the the trap is that they're hard to do
so when we see things that are difficult
human beings are sort of puzzle and
problem-solving oriented we see puzzles
we want to solve them we see mysteries
we're gonna find out that's why
everybody's into like Bigfoot and UFOs
and shit cuz the mystery yeah oh what is
it what do you think it is like we have
a natural inclination to try to solve
things like that yeah and we think that
because in life look if you try to solve
where the food is you survive that's
what made us alive that's why our DNA
has been passed down for all these
hundreds of thousands of years because
our ancestors figured out where the food
is you know they figured out how to
drill a hole in the ice and fish they
figured out how to you know how to
survive and this is why things that are
difficult to do or attractive to us but
we have to be able to differentiate
between things that are difficult and
meaningful and things that are difficult
in bullshit yeah my foot you know Bryan
Callen my friend Bryan Callen sets up to
me once we're really young and it was
the perfect thing we're both in our 20s
and he said how you want is enough money
so you don't have to worry about what
something cost when you go to a
restaurant yeah he's like everything
else is bullshit I was like you're right
yeah being able to have enough money to
just get a nice meal at a restaurant and
not sweat it
yeah everything else is gravy yeah well
you know they've done countless studies
on this like once your basic human needs
are met you know you have the food
shelter yeah everything from that point
on is doesn't correlate to any kind of
happiness and in many ways is the exact
opposite
you know creates more stress yes yes
like what how much do you really need
and if you the more you you think you
need the more problems you're creating
and the more distractions you are from
the important things in life and
developing as a human being you know
you're developing all these
materialistic things but you're not
developing yourself emotionally and
mentally and spiritually and yeah like
just as soon as you realize that like
why am i chip what am i what is the
purpose of what it is that I am chasing
yeah I think the study was like they
said $80,000 like everything over
$80,000 like you really don't experience
any much more you know before that
you're you get into like forty thousand
thirty thousand well nice struggling
it's hard to feed yourself
yeah becomes very it's a weight on your
shoulders but once you hit a certain
number it's like yeah you're gonna be
alright yeah yeah you never be in the
street yeah you're living like I
remember I lived in this apartment I had
this kind of shitty apartment and then I
moved to a better apartment and then I
was sitting in this better apartment I
was like I'm kind of used to this like
I'm used to this like this is just home
now there's a feeling when you get with
your home like alright I'm home now I'm
in this other apartment it just cost
more money yeah you know okay I remember
thinking that like is this better yeah I
mean I guess it's better but it's cost
twice as much like now I gotta fucking
think about how I'm gonna pay for this
bitch yeah well I I think about like
when I had like five dollars in the bank
room when I had five thousand dollars in
the bank right did I feel different I
didn't feel different at all no you know
I might have felt different like when I
go out to eat and the check comes
pay for this kind of thing but but
emotionally I didn't feel any different
whatsoever yeah and yeah I think that's
such an important lesson for all of us
to learn and you know earlier the sooner
you figure those things out you know the
better like so many things in life we
figure out so late if ever you know when
we're kids we look at adults our parents
some those in authority and they called
they got it figured out yeah you had a
really good joke about this about
thinking the older you get the more you
you understand life and how things are
going on but the older you get realize
nobody knows what the fuck is going on
and everyone's out here just winging it
yeah like I don't know what the fuck I'm
doing I'm just kind of trying my best
but but I'm like oh maybe I should look
to my parents for advice like jeez
they're really just adult kids what the
fuck they're talking about yeah the bit
was do you remember when you thought
that grown-ups were real like I used to
think that one day I'm gonna be grown I
was crying I was young I was so upset
one day I'm gonna be growing up and
everything's gonna make sense yeah and
then one day you're at the supermarket
and the guy goes paper plastic sir you
know what sir I'm a sir am i growing up
fuck this is it and then you realize no
one knows anymore than you about what
this is all about you might have more
data yeah in your head you might have
more experience might be a brain surgeon
you might know how to build rockets you
might be smarter than me yeah but you
don't have any fucking idea what this is
yeah no one does
you cannot know you can but everything
is there I'd like to think there are
there are really no facts everything is
a theory because we could all be asleep
in a dream right now or hooked up to a
machine like nobody knows that for sure
so how can you possibly say anything is
factual you can say things are factual
with the information that's in front of
you but that information might be
bullshit in 10 years from now I might
say might have a completely different
perspective on things that we're doing
now that we think are right and like
this is the way life is the way the
world is it was like ten years ago
people had a very different approach to
things you know what we can say is as
far as we know this is the case and this
is what we know is repeatable yeah if
you do this
if you put two bricks on top of two
bricks you have four bricks we're pretty
sure but we might be in a dream yeah
like we could all be wrong and that's
why I think it's you know so stupid to
to judge other people's beliefs be like
Oh your ways the right way you got it
figured out and the everybody else is
crazy but you think it and like don't
you think that they think the exact same
thing you do well there's a problem
today and there's a lot of people out
there given advice and this is what's
interesting sometimes advice it
resonates and then you get older and
wiser and you realize that advice is
really fucking stupid because you have
it's there's people that are giving
advice and they're there they work there
there's like a lot of value in
motivating people right look when
someone's a like a legitimately
motivational person whether it's like
wim HOF the Iceman or someone who's like
really done some things there's
something about them that that their
inspiration is fuel it's it really does
something to you but then there's a lot
of people out there that are just saying
shit cuz they think it's gonna be
motivating to other people and it sounds
like horseshit yeah and it only tricks
dummies yeah and that stuff is painfully
prevalent yeah there's so much of it
there's so many people out there that
are trying to offer advice and they're
trying to motivate people but then you
go hey man what have you experienced and
as they've had a Placid dull life filled
with non accomplishments yeah the
biggest accomplishment is tricking
people into thinking they're good
motivational speaker mm-hmm like the
get-rich-quick things
oh there's so many of those this is how
they've gotten rich sure yeah dude I was
watching a documentary on one of those
guys one of these Internet guys who
rents houses and rents cars and tries to
pretend he's this big baller and and
spends all this money and you know and
ran a bunch of scam dating sites and all
these different things like this is what
this pursuit is odd
it's a fucking odd thing as a pursuit of
tricking people into thinking that
you're more knowledgeable than you
actually
what resonates with people is like what
you were talking about from the
beginning in this podcast when you're
talking about your life and how you felt
and your own real legitimate experiences
and the feelings of inadequacy and then
the finding the light at the end of the
tunnel and all these different things
that are just you're you're you're
relying you're your life's lessons and
experiences those are extremely valuable
for people yeah those are extremely
valuable but because people know they're
extremely valuable there's a lot of
bullshitters out there that are trying
to concoct these things and then trick
you and like this is how I got this
mansion yeah you can get this mansion
too you can make I'm gonna show you here
on a white board this is what you could
do like they're just horse shitting yeah
but there's money in that and so there's
a lot of them there's like they pop up
all the time I get emails from them I
get a fucking Instagram messages i I see
them like hey I want to come on show
motivate people my mom I'm really about
motivating people like bro you're 22 the
fuck are you motivating you ain't
motivating shit you know go move to
Nepal for a year yeah and it's also such
a it's a tricky thing because like for
even for myself it's like of course I
want to motivate people I want to help
people and yes but you can start
drifting into that now I'm a
motivational speaker yes I'm not being
honest
yeah communicating the full spectrum of
the things that I'm dealing with and
going through and like I'm only gonna
focus on this positive things like I'll
just do this this than this and you know
you're gonna go to the right way and
oftentimes because they don't have
someone in their life like the way you
were describing Jeana yeah someone is
gonna hate fuckface so much you you have
to have some of your life that's wrong
with you that's real with you and for me
it's my friends it's definitely my wife
she doesn't bullshit me about anything
yeah those those people are giant in
your life you gotta have people that
check you guys they have to know you too
they have to know you you can't hide
anything from them we haven't we have a
lot of a lot of us tend to have these
with the word be I don't know these
people in our lives that like they're
only there because you're doing
something for them oh yeah like yeah but
those people aren't pushing you there
yes men
yeah the Paras are this parasite thing
they're not it's not a real relationship
it's not a it's not a relationship
you're gonna grow through that's a
that's a relationships gonna make you
feel good yes and in a lot of ways and
it's fun and comfortable it's like but
if you if that person can't get to the
core of you yeah and really like when
you tell me something I know it's truth
because you have no other reason to just
say bullshit right you don't owe me you
don't need anything from yeah yeah
that's giant for people you can't like
this is one thing that I've seen many
times of celebrities yeah when they go
off the rails and they're you know they
don't hang out with other people like
them so they don't have real friends
they have these employees and people
were and it gets real sketchy and
everyone that they talk to and interact
with need something from them and they
assume this position of authority where
no one can question them like no one can
call bullshit no one like you gotta have
peers it's very important and you have
if you don't the respect in the
friendship of your peers like man you're
adrift yeah you're not tethered you're
out there in orbit just fucking floating
around you're another dimension and ya
not gonna get there too very easy yeah
much much easier especially for
successful people people start kissing
your ass yeah Mick oh this is nice I
don't need I don't need to deal with
this bullshit I'm gonna have these
people around me that make me feel good
and say yes to me and bring me all the
things that I want and give me no stress
when I meet people I thought I'd go you
should do jujitsu yeah go get choked go
done and that's helped tell you the
truth an important thing any anything
physical yeah yeah is extremely I think
vital for everyone I mean particularly
kids coming up yeah putting kids into
athletics and martial law yeah like and
if you don't like martial arts look you
can't fake a marathon yeah 26.2 needs to
be run you need to go left foot right
foot left foot right foot till you hit
the fucking finish line period end of
the
gushin yeah if you don't do that you
don't get there you can't fake it you
can fake a lot of shit yeah there's a
lot of shit you can fake but moving your
body you know you can't really fake that
you gotta do it yeah you know a
90-minute yoga class is 90 fucking
minutes its hottest shit and you're in
there sweating your balls off and you
know you got to get to the end yeah you
got to get to the end you know and it's
just it's a small thing that's a small
thing yeah you know life is a big thing
but these small things that you can do
they'll help you understand what's
necessary to get through the big things
yeah and there's there's it's all macro
and micro it's all connected in some
strange way yeah yeah I'm glad you
talked about all this stuff man all of
it from the beginning you know and then
leading up to the the thing with your
stepmom people you know people need to
hear from God like you that looks like
you know you're a cool cat got your shit
together you know it it'd be it would
have been very easy for me just to come
on there and that's the bullshit about
yeah I mean that kind of we can do that
do though yeah we can definitely do that
you know I it's important for me just to
be honest with all the aspects of my
life and to not start drifting into that
just you know this surface you know this
is who I am and you know image image
mentality and you know I I'm very aware
of not wanting to be there though and in
trying to always express myself on the
strap yeah yeah yeah
the image thing's a trap it's not bad to
look good but the this to concentrate on
your image above truth and honesty it's
a real trap you know and espares
fighters fall into that category a lot
because fighting is so fucking it's so
perilous yeah don't know what the future
holds you have no idea every time you
train you could tear an ACL you really
have no idea every day is and you're
relying on your tissue to feed yourself
right your tissue and your cells and and
physical motion and action in order to
that's what you do for a living it's
it's so perilous there's so many things
just so many things that could go wrong
and and when you know you think about an
actual fight itself I mean the
anticipate like I think back to this
past weekend with cowboy and Connor I'm
looking at cowboy like the what the
weight of the moment you know in his
eyes you could see I'm warming up and he
talked about there's this video that
they played before the fight which he he
goes through all of the nervousness of
the experiences before he fights and he
goes through all the faking it and smile
and pretend and he's cool and meanwhile
inside he's freaking the fuck out and
all that stuff that adds to this need to
make everything look great yeah yeah for
sure yeah we we want to we want to be
viewed as superhuman yeah yeah and we're
none of us are no my favorite piece on
that was Mike Tyson in his prime era
Mike Tyson that documentary we talked
about his mindset and walk into the ring
now he's afraid yeah yeah I'm not losing
yeah oh my god oh yeah once again sign
and that's Rob's oh my god yeah that
gives me fucking goosebumps every time
yeah you know cuz he would just put
himself into this state of mind mm-hmm
you know custom model used to hypnotize
him when he was 13 oh yeah oh yeah I
didn't know about that till he was on
the podcast I don't even know if he ever
talked about it oh yeah but he was
talking about how when he was a kid like
this guy he went from being this really
you know poor kid who was abandoned no
love a constant crime and terrible
poverty around him to all of a sudden
he's getting all this love for doing
this one thing for smashing people and
he's found himself with one of the
greatest boxing minds that's ever lived
in custom otto who was explaining to him
fear and motivation and all these
different things and he's hypnotizing
him so he's hypnotizing this
thirteen-year-old kid to smash people
and saying you don't exist only the
tasks
yeah and he's putting him into this
mindset and so then when he gets into
the ring he's just fuckin steamrolling
people yeah like it was almost like a
science project like custom otto found
at the end of his rope right he's old
man about to die he's been through great
champions like Floyd Patterson and he
trained all these great fighters and now
he's got the greatest one he's ever seen
but he's a dying man and this kid's 13
mm-hmm and this kid is just he was in
190 pounds and he's 13
Teddy Teddy Teddy Atlas said he would
bring him to these smokers and no one
would believe it yeah he would go how
old's that they would go how's that kid
he goes he's 13 he's like get the fuck
out of here he's like okay how do you
hold you think he is it was like 16 all
right he's 16 put him in there was a 16
year old and he would smash some 16 year
old he was just built insane he just had
insane genetics and then on top of that
he had the greatest mind ever when it
comes to motivation and understanding
you fear and boxing the guy who studied
it his entire life and he's a hypnotist
and he's hypnotizing this young
thirteen-year-old kid to smash people
and the results youngest-ever a
heavyweight champion and one of the
scariest fucking fighters in the history
of sport there he is in the Catskills I
mean that's also raised in isolation in
the fucking Catskills up in the
mountains yeah fuck what a story it's a
goddamn movie yeah oh and then more than
you think about like how amazing that
was for him as an athlete but how
detrimental that was to him yeah as a
human being and all the things he's had
to develop with so much later in life
and like yeah you understand like why he
was fucking nuts yes you know they don't
expect these people to be normal when
they're doing this thing why do we
expect that right like you you you you
you want these people to be these
amazing athletes and these savages and
these things but then when they're human
beings on the outside oh well that's
that's a piece of shit like you can't
have it it's definitely I have it both
ways
well it's also human beings are so
incredibly nuanced and when someone does
a thing wrong we want their hole to be
wrong everything who they are we want a
1 or a zero wheel on a black or a white
and particularly when you're dealing
people like fighters that are dealing
with this insane amount of pressure and
this incredible emotional rollercoaster
right and then on top of that why did
they become fighters in the first place
almost all of them I mean let's say
let's just be real generous that say 75%
75% of them came from a fucked up
childhood there's 25% of them maybe they
just really enjoy competition yeah but
75% came from a feeling of deficit
seventy-five percent came from a fuck
you I'm going to show you yeah they came
from this thing and people that come
from that thing they're not the most
balanced folks yeah they're gonna make
mistakes you know and compassion and
understanding and and the ability to
forgive there's a those are some of the
most important aspects of community and
friendship and of the human race we have
to be able to be compassionate towards
people that have experienced a different
life than we have and we have to be able
to forgive people when they fuck up and
we can't just write them off and that's
one of the weirder things about today
with this whole cancel culture shit yeah
like people just want to decide you know
like based on a tweet someone said or so
some things someone did that's it you're
canceled forever
get out you kill them death off of their
head yeah it's almost like there's too
many of us so we we just don't value
it's almost like people in traffic we
don't value each other because there's
there's so many people that we just have
a whelming abundance of human beings you
can cancel somebody yeah you even think
about them get rid of them who's next
you know it's so much easier for us to
be judgmental yeah have a voice and to
say you're wrong I'm justified in the
way I am because I've never done that so
I'm a good person you're a person we
don't look inside me like we're all
fucked up will ya horrible things go to
really awful things to each other and
these people are in the spotlight so
it's easy to point at them and make
yourself feel better about the things
that you haven't done ensure or
justified in your actions but but like
we're all fucked up and we all make
mistakes and we all need some sympathy
and love and we all need these things
yeah we're all human
humans need love we need sympathy we
need the understanding and we need to be
able to say I'm sorry and we need other
people to be able to accept that we need
to be able to communicate with each
other and this also cancel culture I
think is born out of social media
because the most bizarre way to
communicate ever a one-way like text
message to the world yeah you know it's
like that everybody's gonna see then
everybody sees that you don't know right
and then also people are sending these
you know really disingenuous ones just
hoping that people like them more
because of the things they're saying
which is like a sport now it's like
let's see how many likes I can get oh I
got ding ding ding then you feel just
yes your opinion yes and then that
becomes who you are I'm an activist but
you're just complaining to the void it
is screaming out into the world yeah
that's you know we're living through
strange times man well it's the canceled
culture and I view it as the team
culture of everything is what's I think
one of the more detrimental things to
our to humanity is you're out there on
this side or that side and our sides
right your sides wrong when most of us
are somewhere in the middle yeah but we
can't have an in the middle conversation
because it's you're with them or you're
with us yeah I want to know how people
think if I disagree with them I like
talking to people I disagree with well
that's what I you know that's really a
one thing I really love about your show
is your ability to communicate with
people even the ones that you obviously
don't agree with but you're able to talk
to them and to hear their points of view
and not be like oh you're fucking idiot
or like even if you're nuts like and
talk to them and and that is something
that is so missing today is our ability
to communicate with people that don't
agree with us like just because you have
a different opinion than me
doesn't mean we can't meet in the middle
somewhere or learn from each other yeah
or or you know a big thing for me coming
up was we can learn from everyone even
if it's what not to do
yes that is so vital in Ino in
everything but like for me and training
was like
now this person doesn't want the fuck
they're doing but maybe one day I'm
gonna face somebody like that so maybe I
should kind of get a little grasp of
their mentality and yeah that just
applies to life's like maybe you don't
agree with their thought process but it
you can at least understand it and know
what it is you do and don't like know
what your beliefs are you got to take a
step outside of your beliefs to
understand if is that even what you
believe or is it just the way you were
raised in the way you grew up like do
you really believe these things have you
ever taken a step outside of them or or
listen to somebody else's alternate
perspective on what they believe in and
have an open mind to it oh yeah I know
that kind of makes sense a little bit
it's hard because you don't get that
many conversations with people where you
disagree with them and it's not
confrontational usually they're
confrontational or you're
confrontational so it always starts off
on the bad foot I've I've learned how to
do it from doing this podcast and one of
the most surprising things about doing
this podcast is I've learned how to talk
to people better yeah I didn't think
that was a thing I thought I just just
was talking to people but then I
realized somewhere along the way way not
only people listening but sometimes I'm
annoying okay how do i how do I do this
where I'm less annoying and in learning
how to do things that are less annoying
I've become a more compassionate
conversationalist I understand how to
talk to people better and I've gotten
its I apply it to my whole life now I've
gotten better at it and I've see people
who are bad at it it's so frustrating
like I have some really smart friends
and you know I talk to them and they
just fucking interrupt each other and
they interrupt you and they don't let
anybody talk they're not listening
they're just waiting for their time to
talk and you know it's it's so strange
they're not able to ever consider other
people's opinions they think that
everyone but them is wrong and it's you
know it's basically like you know how it
is when you see a YouTube video where
people have no idea how to fight you see
them fight you know that thing that is
so crazy
I've this day I'm like I've been doing
martial arts my whole life I don't want
to fight anybody but I see people
fighting they have no idea how to find
him
I imagine myself if I was in a street
fight with this guy I'm like this is I
would be like why are you doing this man
this is so crazy you don't know what
you're doing hey yeah hey you're crazy
you're gonna get killed you're lucky I'm
nice but that's the same way with
conversation there's a lot of people out
there having conversations have no idea
how to talk they don't they're not even
really listening to you yeah they're
just like why are you doing that why are
you arguing you're you're in a
conversation you don't even know how to
have one yeah you're not listening
you're just talking you're just using
someone like a like a wall that you're
throwing a fucking tennis ball off of
it's bizarre yeah yeah yeah well you had
you had a kitchen statement on this and
then I think it was your last
specialties like you have two idiots in
a room it's the more confident one that
they listen to yeah and it's that that
concept of you just just say more words
and you know have more in opinions in
you don't have to think just be loud and
make a lot of noise it's a game they're
trying to like checkmate you yeah
instead of like having a communication
and conversation they're trying to like
socially dominate you and this look I
used to do it for sure yeah um I mean I
think it's a learned thing you know you
people do it to you and you go man I got
fucking kicked my ass not conversation I
get better at kicking people's ass and
then you get better sort of bulldogging
people or talking over them or talking
loud or having these like these
sentences that maybe you could pull out
of your ass every now and then to shut
people down it sounds good and it
becomes a sport yeah instead of what it
really should be which is sharing ideas
and communicating with people like I
mean if you're really into the sport of
just debating people and shutting people
down and insulting people okay that good
for you but people don't like listening
to that that much yeah well people like
listening to for what I've bought from
my experience is someone actually
talking to someone someone actually
expressing their thoughts and then the
other person considering their thoughts
and either agreeing or disagreeing but
people are so happy when you could do
that without real conflict yeah you know
I've had some people on that I just five
years ago I would have I would just said
you fucking moron I would have screamed
at them what are you talking about
you're an idiot you
go fuck yourself jump off a bridge but
instead of doing that I'd be like okay
why do you think that and tell me tell
me what about this and then and here's
what I think let me tell you what I
think you tell me what you think yeah
this level to do that in a nun like
snarky wave yeah oh yeah you think that
tell me more but but yeah like it's how
you get the best out of people though
that's how you understand who they
really are
and it's so valuable so value but for me
it's just for me I know it's valuable
for people that are listening but just
for me as a human from my own education
it's been everything yeah everything
I've learned more from talking to people
on this podcast both from talking to
scholars and scientists and and really
intelligent people and morons yeah you
know I've learned a lot from talking to
morons just just the awkwardness in the
way they process thoughts and the way
they view the world and the way they've
chosen to communicate that you learn
from that just like you're saying like
sparring with someone who like doing has
terrible habits yeah oh look at this guy
what the fuck are you doing that yeah
but you learn you can learn from people
you know well I think that's something
that that really separates you from a
lot of people I mean like yeah their
shows are people are very opinionated
and loud and you know people like that
and that kind of thing but your ability
to communicate and to bring out
conversation regardless of what the
subject matter is makes it very
intriguing and you can learn a lot from
regardless of who the guest is like you
learned so much from these people
because of the way you're able to
communicate with them the way you're
able to bring out conversation and get
in depth with all of these subjects
well I'm genuinely curious about most
things and I'm genuinely curious about
the way I think like why do I think that
way so if someone thinks different than
me I'm genuinely curious like why do you
think there's an instinct to go now
you're fucking wrong I'm right but I
just go oh I know what that is that's
trick don't do that it's that's dumb
don't think that way just try to find
out this is not a game it's not contest
yeah find out why this person thinks
this way mm-hm
and it's
better for everybody yeah but it's just
a lost talent like a lot of people do
and I didn't even know it was a thing
till I started doing podcasts it just
took me a while like podcasts or like
anything else for me at least as I'm
doing it I'm trying to get better at it
and I realized I used to not be as good
like I can't I never listen to my
podcast but if I did listen to like the
old ones from the beginning I probably
look fucking terrible Jesus Christ you
know plus most of them I was high out of
my fucking mind
I don't know half what I was talking
about while I was saying it I was
ruining conversations left and right but
these conversations for me are like it's
like going to school it's like every day
I'm going school about humans you know
going to school about whatever the
subject they're talking to me about but
also going to school about how you know
the more people you talk to especially
like this no cell phones we're wearing
headphones and there's one of the
reasons I like headphones is cuz your
voice is in my ear yeah you're not over
there you're right here man you're we're
locked in and this is exactly the same
way that other people are gonna hear it
which is a very unusual way to hear a
conversation yeah you don't think about
it that way but most the time when you
hear a conversation your voice is louder
because it's closer and they're over
there
yeah yeah and you're talking to each
other and you know maybe you check your
phone or maybe you're distracted by
other noises but when you were in
headphones you don't hear anything else
yeah so you're locked in and when when
else would you and I and we're friends
I've known you for years when we'll be
able to sit down with this yeah for
hours now just across from each other in
each other's eyes just talking yeah yeah
I never thought about that with the
headphones big yeah that's interesting
it keeps you from talking over each
other too much - because conversations
are improvisational right you know you
have a dance partner you know one step
on each other's toes but you do it
casually it's just so you get better at
it and it's for more than two people
it's mandatory like when you have three
or four people on a podcast you cannot
do it without headphones or it's just
talking over each other like I learned
that doing those fight companions oh
yeah cuz everyone's drunk and then they
have the headphones on it's sort of at
least calms some of the over talk you
know yeah that makes sense yeah it's uh
it's a journey man like everything else
you know like everything else it's a
journey if
doing it right your relationships being
a parent being a comedian being a
fighter being a doctor I'm sure you if
you're concentrating on it you get
better at it
yeah I'm sure yeah I think I think just
the understanding of it's a constant
balancing at it's a constant development
the sooner you come to terms and
understand that the better off you're
gonna be
but yet we get locked into these ways of
thinking these ways of living and so
your did that wait till you die and a
lot of people are and to constantly be
questioning yourself and to be searching
I feel like I'm a seeker I'm seeking
different ways to do things different
ways to think different perspectives on
situations but particularly ones that
might be like stuck on like this is the
way I think this is what I believe like
I want to explore what my beliefs and
feelings and viewpoints are on
everything yeah I think that is how you
gain a better understanding of what this
thing is what this thing we're
experiencing is you know what nobody
knows what the hell it is know what it
is yeah I just got you know there's some
scientists that are they they're trying
to they've written a book about it but
they're trying to come on the podcast to
lay out all of the reasons why this is a
simulation yeah and I'm going over some
of their work and I'm like this is
fucking so crazy yeah cuz if if they're
right like what are we doing yeah we're
playing a video game yeah if they're
right yeah and then there's the thought
that maybe that is what life is period
and that this idea of like oh one day
we're going to create an artificial
environment that we exist in that's
going to be indistinguishable from the
real world that we existed now maybe
it's always that yeah maybe it's been
that from the beginning and evolution is
actually a part of this long game mm-hmm
and that this cycling of life and life
and death and all these things is just a
part of this insane
long progressive game yeah yeah great
and lined up and I'm going to think
about it and you know who can say that
that's not the case
yeah no nobody nobody can no you can't
you can't and the more you think about
it you might like check out reality to a
degree so it's it's a scary thing I'm
also genuinely curious as to other
people's perspectives like they're
sometimes I you know I love reading
people's takes on current events takes
on people and takes on like movies and
music and all because I I've disagreed
with so many of them and I know like
what how is this person viewing the
world like I would like to be them for a
short period of time if I knew for a
fact I can come back and be me again
yeah I want to see what are you seeing
like how do you are you in pain all the
time like are you just what why are you
mad at stuff I get like what is it you
know like is it an emotional thing or is
your mind just wired different look
we're all assuming right that water
tastes the same to use it does to me and
that like the sunshine feels everybody
knows sunshine feels good but does it
feel the same I don't know what your
sunshine feels like right yeah you know
I think about that a lot one thought I
have is like this is white we both say
it's white but maybe this looks
completely different to you yeah this
white looks yellow yellow yeah we call
it the same right because we're we agree
and that's like so much of reality is
just something we all agree upon until
we don't until we change our minds but
there's so many people that see and feel
and think very different things and we
look at them as crazy because the
majority of us say that's not the way we
see or sure but all anything is is an
agreeance upon what this thing is and is
that is that what makes things real that
we agree that it's real
well we think about other things that
people have tastes for like food for
example there's people that enjoy
certain flavors like spicy foods for
example and there's other people that
fucking hate it
my wife's mom she can't have anything
with an e pepper or anything anything
even remotely Hodge oh it's too hot
yeah no everything's too hot yeah and I
can't make these hot enough I'm pouring
hot sauce on everything like what is she
feeling like what is it like I wonder if
she had my taste buds like what is it
what am i experiencing different than
her what you know what people that love
certain kinds of music
there's people I've tried so hard like
jazz because it seems like a cool thing
like like it seems like you you must be
a cool guy if you like jazz yeah like my
good friend Alonzo Bodden
hilarious comedian loves jazz goes on
jazz cruises does stand-up on these
cruises I try man I try listen to it I
get some of its kind of cool but if I
choose between jazz and other music
might get the fuck out if it's one music
that I could just wipe off the face the
planet I don't know probably be like
dumb country songs but outside of dumb
country songs I just I don't know what
they're experiencing like what is it
about it that's resonating why does some
people go bonkers for some movies and
other people think they suck yeah like
what is it yeah one thing that always
trips me out is I think about like
people with you as lunatics and like
what if they are seeing reality and we
have blinders on you know because when
you take into account what a finite
percentage of what's really out there
that we're able to see without
perception and you know if compared to
like x-rays and gamma-rays and all of
these things like we have such a tiny
filter on everything that's really going
on out there yeah we don't really see we
don't see shit compared to what's really
there and like maybe these whacked-out
people are just seeing more of what's
happening and that's what makes them
nuts because they're like not seeing all
these demons flying around and all these
colors and like we just have we have a
filter on that so we can like process
information we're like and it keeps us
sane but that's I mean what's really
going on out there but you think about
how small amount of acid you need to
take to completely perturb the way you
view the world yeah you know I think
McKenna described this Terence Mckenna
disc
acid that the potency of acid is like
it's literally like full in terms of
like the amount that you need in order
to have an effect he made it an analogy
like an ant deconstructing the entire
Empire State Building in a matter of
seconds mmm like that's how potent it is
in terms of volume you don't need a
couple drops of acid in a huge human
body and you're tripping balls for seven
hours yeah you know that's a chemical
disruption of this very delicate
ecosystem mmm so if your neuro chemistry
is off in any way up or down sideways
screwy you got too much of this or too
much of that yeah which we know is the
case with everything right like some
people are born with bad eyesight some
people are born deaf some people are
born and they have problems processing
pain they don't feel pain correctly some
people are born and they must have an
imbalance of the chemicals that are
floating around inside your head yeah
and their view of the world is radically
different than ours yeah and also those
chemicals can shift depending on for
your personal experience like life abuse
children that are abused their chemicals
in their head as they're developing are
off they're different their brains are
different they process life different
because of abuse people that have
experienced extremes trauma extreme
violence when they're young PTSD they're
processing things differently the people
that have-not yeah
what's even crazier about that as I read
a book called it didn't start with you
and it talks about how these things are
passed on generationally from like
trauma your grandparents head is passed
on to you through your DNA and it and it
and it changes us like how much is
passed on to us that we have no control
over then alters our the way we feel
things we see things all of these
[Music]
experiences that people have that just
get passed passed down like that
without any outside influence just just
through that process of being do you
have any children
no when you have children you see it in
a really weird way like my middle
daughter my 11 year old is an obsessive
yeah like she she's a obsesses on things
and tries to get better on them or you
gotta try to tell her hey time to go to
bed she's doing like backflips in her
room and shit like stop stop go to bed
like you got to go to bed but that's me
yeah and I always thought it was fucked
up I was like I thought I was doing this
and I probably was my whole life to try
to show that I had value because I felt
like I was ignored and I didn't know my
dad and I always felt like an outsider
and a loser and I always felt like I
would become I would throw myself into
things to show that I had value and I
would get really good at things to show
that I had value and that would be this
obsession was like me trying like trying
to escape the existential angst of my
existence and just the the constant
anxiety and this just feeling of just
inadequacy trying to escape it by being
obsessed with things but also trying to
prove through getting good at things
that I have value because the first time
I ever felt like I was worth anything it
was when I started getting good at
martial arts
like and then people started respecting
me I was like oh I have a thing that
people think I'm good at know that I'm
good at this thing that became my
identity and everybody just threw myself
into that but my daughter's growing up
with none of that like she's all loved
and she's all smiling and happy and
she's not depressed she gets a lot of
hugs and she has friends but she's a
fucking psycho and I'm like oh you got
that for me like you got my crazy gene
but you got it without all the fucked-up
parts right like you're not sad you got
it without the sad thing you just want
to get good at stuff without like a
happiness to it and also a feminine
happiness to it instead of a masculine
like I just wanted to smash yeah that's
all I wanted to do I just want to smash
things because I was angry she's not
angry so it's weird to see this
obsessive like completely obsessive
behavior in terms of like trying to get
better at things and she accelerates it
she excels at so many
different things that she gets good at
yeah she gets good at things and they
become her whole life like all day long
obsessive like it's really weird but in
a happy way and it's so it's it's
strange genetically yeah you know and
you know you've met my dog Marshall the
fucking nicest dog in the world right
he's so nice no that's a genetic thing
that dog is a golden retriever and when
he like when you come over to him and he
starts whining is so happy and he wants
to get pat and he runs and grabs a toy
always he always wants to bring you
something okay I didn't teach him that
yeah I've got him for three years I've
had him since he was a little tiny baby
who's like six weeks old when I got him
never had a rough day in his life every
day's been fun but he's learned through
his DNA that he's supposed to retrieve
things and bring them over and that you
are happier when he brings things over
because that's the DNA that's in his
system it's not he didn't learn it yeah
this is literally inside of him from the
box like right out of the box look at
the ingredients oh he likes to bring you
things yeah because his ancestors
brought you things his ancestors brought
other people things and they were
rewarded for and they said oh they give
me treats and they like me more when I
bring things so I'm gonna just keep when
you you know you shoot a duck out of the
sky and they get that duck and bring it
over and everybody gets happy so it's in
him yeah it's great yeah I don't think
we understand what what DNA actually is
or whatever fuck you dude DNA is just a
name right whether the components of the
life-form that are passed when two
life-forms breed and they make another
one I don't think we really understand
it I think we we have a rudimentary
understanding of the chemistry involved
but in terms of like personality and in
terms of like the the thoughts that are
in our heads like I was reading
something by Rupert Sheldrake he was
talking about why children are afraid of
monsters
he's like children that grow up in the
city or afraid of monsters they're not
afraid of like gunshots and car
accidents things that are really scary
and they're afraid of monsters because
our ancient ancestors were eaten by cats
yeah they were eaten and by wolves and
those kind of things so we're afraid of
fangs
things in the dark when you can't see
them coming you can't protect yourself
yeah
crazy crazy it's in there it's in the
DNA yeah I mean there's so much of
there's so much stuff like that that
just we don't understand anything have
you ever met someone that has like a
legit phobia like a video phobia or
arachnophobia like fear of snakes or
spiders I know that I have I'm trying to
think who that was but yeah it's like
where did that come from its DNA Mel
guarantee I've seen it on Fear Factor we
had a few people that had a legit fear
of snakes and spiders they're like oh my
god oh my god you see their whole body
was shaking and they were trying like
hey this I'm even fucking poisonous yeah
these are just snakes
but there's something about snakes like
someone they love or there is someone in
their ancestry or some someone survived
a snake attack something yeah there's
something yeah well I can like so much
of that is realizing how little like
control we have over everything like how
we raise our children or how we interact
with people and like what does and
doesn't affect us and like the fact that
any of this works in any remote ways is
insanity
yeah like it doesn't make any sense we
think it makes sense because it's normal
to us but it would really take a step
back and like think about it like this
is nuts ever thoughts this life is nuts
and you know like sitting here with yous
nuts
a year and talking about life like like
some of the people you've met through
this and like you're like how did I get
here like what is this like I feel that
way too fuck is going on what did I do
to get here like this is weird what did
I do to get here yeah I think I really
believe in some strange way that this
thing made me do this yeah that this
podcast like almost like the universe
made me do this yeah and it sounds like
so pretentious but I'm just being honest
I feel like almost like this thing has a
life of its own and a mind of its own
they tricked me
yeah it tricked me and and it played on
my obsessive mind to just keep doing it
to keep doing it maybe you get better at
this
hey keep doing it bringing on other
people keep doing it keep doing it and
through this untold millions of people
been exposed yeah tell us differently
we've had three
a billion downloads over the course of
ten years so I don't know how many
people that is yeah how many individuals
but it's a fuckload so all of these
different people have come on and
expressed all these different ideas and
so many different people are hearing
them in their earbuds whether in traffic
or when they're at the gym and all these
ideas percolate inside people's brains
and that it gives them different
perspectives and then it makes them
maybe explore things maybe I'm gonna try
jiu-jitsu maybe I'm gonna try yoga maybe
I'm gonna try eating better maybe on I
try doing this and through all that you
see a shift in the culture of the human
beings there that have been in that have
been affected by all these people's
conversations yeah and for me it feels
like I just I'm getting sucked into
being here yeah like I'm like okay and
then also like me getting better at it
it's just me it's like it showing me how
to extract better information and get
out of my fucking way don't ruin it and
make it better for the people that are
listening yes really what it feels like
that's a note so crazy even saying that
sounds like hippy bullshit well and you
think about like why are we attracted to
certain things certain people certain
sometimes retracted to people that des
and make any fucking sense be like
everything you do and say and make me
feel it's like everything opposite of
what I really want and but but I'm
attracted you and think these yeah like
like bring a certain thing out of me
yeah develop me in a certain way where
nobody else could do that like you this
person does that for me for some reason
or this action this sport this thing
like why am i drawn right right right I
shouldn't be like it's fucking horrible
and like it hurts and like all these
things that doesn't make any sense at
all
but nothing makes any sense at all like
it doesn't make any sense in like that I
think that's why it's so vital to follow
your heart and follow the things you
feel because everything else like knows
what the fuck is going on like nobody
can tell you what you should do should
do to be successful or to be happy or to
be all these things like you got it
listen to what's inside of you
yeah it means you could be wrong
you could listen to what insight inside
of you and you could be wrong but you
have to learn how to like decipher that
voice better yeah like I've been wrong
about things that I thought I wanted and
then you go okay this is why I was wrong
I was delusional or I was kidding myself
fixated on yeah hmm yeah
or I was thinking that this thing was
gonna bring me some sort of peace so
he's gonna bring me some sort of some
sort of just normalcy yeah you know and
then it doesn't happen so you're all
right well because there is no normalcy
nothing is normal
everything's crazy we're all nuts yeah
nobody knows what's going on all those
things that should be a t-shirt yeah
nothing is normal everything is crazy no
one knows what's going on at all
the sooner we realize that the better
would be like we're all in the loony
Moon yeah yeah it will definitely be
easier that's why I'm I'm always scared
of drugs that make people confident my
favorite drugs marijuana because it does
the opposite of making me confident
mm-hm it makes me paranoid it makes me
it makes me compassionate and it makes
me also like : jeez this is crazy
yeah like that's why I like it yeah I
like it because I think the drugs that
make you kooky we should all be a little
less confident yeah you know we need
each other a lot more than we like to
pretend and this life is like this
temporary thing that we're going through
we have a certain amount of heartbeats
and then who knows yeah the lights go
out and hopefully go to a better place
but yeah well I think the thing it does
- is it strips that that veil away like
that veil of feeling like everything's
in balance and normal and you know life
is like this is life like life is
fucking weird man we're super weird
super we distract ourselves with
normalcy and habits but take a step back
and like this is nuts
this is all nuts and we pretend like
it's normal and it's cool and everyone's
like in agreeance that like we all know
what's going on
no fuck's going on we're all living in a
spaceship flying through the atmosphere
yeah we're all tripping balls over here
we're just all doing it so it feels
normal but we can find
some moments of comfort and happiness in
the chaos and that's what we're we're
all seeking yeah you know we're all
seeking these moments of comfort and
happiness and camaraderie and and
friendship you know we're all seeking
love - we're all seeking the good
feelings yeah but you got to get through
the shitty ones to even appreciate the
good feelings it's a catch-22 yeah yeah
but just understand that you need any
good in the bad no you don't know what
good is unless you have bad yeah it has
to be that way
so we're getting towards 3 o'clock here
we're almost gonna wrap this thing up um
what are you doing now in terms of your
career you're still fighting for
Bellator yeah
yes torchic boxing which very I'm very
thankful that they have that still yeah
yeah I'm you know I'm a gigantic fan of
kickboxing in Muay Thai and it's always
perplexed me why it hasn't caught hold
in America more than it has yeah which
is something we could talk about for
hours
yeah I'm very thankful that paramount
network is still invested yeah huge
shout-out to Scott Coker Scott Coker
amazing shadow shot there is and they
got that big fight this weekend with
Julie bud and cyborg which is cool but
yeah I'm still fighting for them I don't
have anything on the books right now I'm
waiting like I always have been since
the beginning of time you know something
you think is gonna change like
eventually I'm gonna have all these
fights lined up in like I've never known
when the next one is and certainly not
when the next one is after that but yeah
I'm hoping something will come up and
you know as far as how long I'm gonna
keep doing this I don't know man I could
be done today maybe I'll decide I don't
fucking do this shit anymore but um I
think I've always had a healthy
understanding of that like fighting is
what I do and I will always be a fighter
but this isn't it for me like I have so
many things that I do in my life you
know I'm I'm a writer like I said I'm
working on my autobiography right now
I've written two books so far I'm an
artist I paint I draw play a piano a
little bit I speak you know I'm a
Renaissance man do you think you'll be
more invested in art
you're done I don't know you know I
think I'll definitely have more time to
do it you know as far as how much I'll
do it as a career I don't know you know
what from me art has always been
something that I do it because I love to
do it if it starts becoming a job where
it's like you need to do this or you
need to do that I think that would make
me lose a lot of love for it yeah you
know those things yeah so but I think
you can get through that without it
becoming a job I think that's a
perspective cuz the end of the day it's
still art yes like just because you have
to do it for a job like like what does
that mean just do it yeah you know I
mean like if you think oh I have to do
art now now it's a job it's like you
know the expression marrying your
mistress well I think you can just do
art yeah you know you just be obsessed
with it like you are if it's not a job
yeah and then the other parts just sort
of take care of itself
yeah well I like everything I do I feel
is artistic expressions you know my
fighting my actual are sure my writings
and those kinds of things but I don't
think I'll ever be like have be stuck on
a job or one thing you know because
there's I'm just too interested in too
many different things you know I think
I'll always be balancing many different
aspects and certain times I'll be more
focused on one thing like my fighting
obviously that's a very finite timeline
on that but once that's done you know
that's going to shift and I think it
will always be that way to one extent or
another I'll be always be doing a
multitude of things and exploring and
developing and learning and yeah like I
said I'm a seeker I love it when you're
done and you want to do something else
come back in here talk to us and tell us
what's up I would love to man this has
been really great
my pleasure brother always I appreciate
you man thank you now if you have an R
or ladies and gentlemen thank you
goodbye
that was great thank you
[Music]